Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition

Public Comments and Updates
for the CA Instructional Quality Commission
Meeting, January 16th, 2020

Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition is the leading Ethnic: Studies advocacy group in California, with over 100
intergenerational, racially and ethnically diverse, community-based organizations, institutions, and institutional
units in support, representing collective. memberships of over 500,000.

Esteemed Instructional Quality Commission (JQC). Members, we thank you for your work, and for
your support throughout 2019 and moving forward: New [QC Members in 2020, welcome to a project which
has been over five decadés in the making, and which wilf be remembered for generations to come. ‘Ethnic
Studies communities must be considered as the primary constituency for this project, and we are here to
help keep the curriculum critically grounded and to. maintain its transformative potential for our students
across California, while also being open to consensus building with ali reasonable stakeholders in Governor
Newsom's California for All. We have already begun this consensus. building process and look forward to
contiriuing with it, ideally in collaboration with the CDE, so that by the time you recieve the next iteration of
the curriculum in Aprii, there will be greater consensus among all reasonable stakeholders, and Ethnic
Studies communities will not be put in aposition’where we ourselves must protest.the course that carries
our name. We thank you for'doing what is right with this project, after our advocacy of 50+ years for it;
indeed, we.are.all honored to participate in. this moment with you, for past, present, and-future. generations.
Let 2020 be remembered as the year we all come together for this. Si'Se Puede. Save CA Ethnic Studies.

For more info, please contact: saveCAethnicstudiés@qmail.com

Table of Contents

. Three Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Petition

Asks of California Department of Education

. Save.CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Supporters - Partia! List

. Updates from the CDE - With Additional Context

a. Ethnic Studiés Expert Panel - fn Strong Support of Draft, In Strong Support of Arab
American Studies as a Part of Asian American Studies

b. West Ed Focus Groups - implied Adv. Commitee Members Would Be Invited, Were Not

c. Alternate Guiding Principles - Could Dilute:of Transformative Potential

. Not Sacrificing Arab American Studies - It is Under the Rubric of Asian American Studies,
Per Leading Asian American Studies and Ethnic Studies Scholars

a. The Association of Asian.American Studies

b. The Arab American Studies Association

c. Chairs of Asian American Studies Departments

. Sampling of Additional Support For Draft, and for Advisory Commitee Members to Be a

Part of the Process Moving Forward

. Select State Board of Education Ethnic Studies Guidelines, which Cannot Be
Compromised

. Review of Instructional Quality Commission Comments on 9/20/2019

. Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Consensus Building to Reconcile Differences. Between
Diverse Communities
1. Three Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Petition Asks
of California Department of Education

Join us today in demanding that the CA Department of 11,409 have signed. Let's ger to
Education, instructional Quality Commission, State Board of 18,000!
Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, State RAE.
Superintendent Tony Thurmond, and Governor Gavin OF Mary Kay Sennan sated this pesto
Newsom: hrisitephar Sorcha sigan toe
DARE?
41. Keep the current model curriculum draft Gwith

some revisions) focused on the histories and Thanks to your support this petition
has a chance at winning! We only
need 3.597 more signatures to reach
the next goal ~ can you help?

social justice struggles of communities-of color in
the U.S.

2. Maintain the Ethnic Studies curricular framework
with disciplinary knowledge, language, and
pedagogy—by. not diluting ar converting it into a
non-equivalent field Cie., multicultural studies,
diversity studies, or area studies),

3. Improve accountability, transparency, and
consensus-building with the Ethnic Studies

expert practitioners of communities of coler and
Native people—throughout the entire model
curriculum process and up until its completion
and ratification.

e We are thankful that it seems consensus has been reached on the first ask of our-petition, although
ihere are certain specifics, that must still be resolved. Further, there és room for more. inclusivity. while
still keeping the curriculum centered on communities-of cotor; this:is one of the key strengths of
Ethnic Studies, and: happens through the cultural and community responsiveness that benefits aff
students in the clasroom. Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition, can help the CDE strenghten this
element for the subsequent iteration of the model curriculum — many of our coalition’s. educators,
already do this in the. classrooms and districts we have been ‘demonsrating the transformative
potential of Ethnic Studies in for years.

e Acore-focus is currently based around the. second:and third asks of our petition, which we humbly
ask you to urge the CDE to do beitter with moving forward, to. better support.the Instructional Quality
Commission and State Board of Education when the next iteration of the draft gets to you. This is
what is needed,.and-as the leading Ethnic Studies educators and practitioners in the field, it should
not be necessary to waif to begin this level of collaboration and consensus: building until the next
iteration is-released in April. That puts extra onus on you, without having a background in Ethnic
Studies yourselves. We ‘have the extra time to come to consensus in strengthening the curriculum,
we should use it wisely, and collaboration with Ethnic Studies communities is a necessary part of
this, which is why we’ urge you to ensure it happens before you receive the next iteration in April.
2.

Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Supporters - Partial List

In addition to 10,000+ individuals directly signed on in support of the Save California Ethnic

Studies Coalition in the initial month for the September 20, 2019 Instructional Quality Commission
meeting, listed-below are a few of over 100 community-based organizations, institutions, bodies, and
units, in support of the Ethnic Studies Model Curricuhim draft (with some revisions) and an authentic
Ethnic Studies moving forward. The organizations below have combined memberships: of over 500,000,
representing communities of color and our allies, for educational, racial, and social justice.

aus wON

30 ON

10.
41.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23

AB 2016 California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee (Feb - April, 2019)
Abner Mikva Challenge Action Civics Calfornia

Afro-Latinx Connection

Alianza - Sacramento

Alliance of South Asians Taking Action

American Indian & Indigenous Faculty Staff Association of California Polytechnic State University,
San Luis Obispo

Anakbayan Santa Cruz

Anakbayan UCLA

Apex Express

API's for Ethnic Studies

Asian Americans Advancing Justice

Asian American Political Alliance {AAPA)

Asians4BlackLives- Bay Area

Association of Ethnic Studies

Association of Raza Educators - California

Black Lives Matter - California

Black Student Union 1968 Strikers, San Francisco State University
California Asian.& Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus

California Democratic Party Arab American Caucus

California Democratic Party Chicano-Latino Caucus
California Faculty Association
California Indian History Curriculum Coalition

. California Latino. School Boards Association
24,
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.

Califorriia Latino Legislative Caucus

California Legislative Black Caucus

California State University Council on Ethnic Studies - representing Ethnic Studies depts an 22 CSU's
California State University Northridge, American Indian Student.Association

California Teachers Association

California Teachers Association/Stanford Instructional Leadership Corps’ Ethnic Studies Team
Ceriter for Political Education

Central American United Student Association, CSUN

Central Ameérican Isthmus Graduate Association (CAIGA), UCLA
33. Chabot College Ethnic Studies Department

34, Chicano Moratorium.50 Year Anniversary Commemoration Committee

35. Chicano Research Center - Stockton

36. Christine Sleeter, Ph.D., author of National Education Association research review on Ethnic.
Studies, the only publication specifically cited in the AB 2016 legislation

37. Cruz Reynoso Voter Engagement Coalition

38..Compton Unified Schoo} District Board members

39, Council on American-Islamic Relations, California

40. Dalit American Foundation

41, Dreams to Be Heard

42. Eagle Condor Liberation Front, UCLA

43. Eclipse Rising, Zainichi Korean Organization

44, Education for Liberation Network

45..Education for Social Justice Foundation

46. Equality Labs

47, Ethnic Studies Now Coalition - California

48. Filipino American Educators Association of California

49. HOBAK Hella Orgariized Bay Area Koreans

50. IfNotNow Progressive Jewish American Activist Group

51. Indian People Organizing for Change

52. Jean Quan, first female Mayor of Oakland (2011-2015), AAPA.and TWLF:co-founder

53. Jewish Voice for Peace-Bay Area

54, Jewish Voice for Peace-Los. Angeles

55. Keith Brown, President; Oakland Education Association

56. Korea Policy Institute

57. Labor Council for Latin American Advancement (LCLAA) Sacramento AFL-CIO

58.. LEGACY Youth Project

59. LCLAA Sacramento AFL-CIO

60, League of United Latin American Citizens - California

61. Little Manila Rising

62. MECHA de CSUN

63. MECHA de UCLA

64, Middle East Children’s Alliance

65. Napa Valley Ethni¢ Studies Advocates

66. National Association of Chicana and: Chicano Studies Norcal Foco

67. National Association of Multicultural Education

68, Nodutdol for Korean Community Development

69. Peoples Education Movement - Bay Area

70, Peoples Education Movement.- Los Angeles

71. People Organizing to Demand Economic & Environmental Rights ~ PODER

72. Pin@y Educational Partnerships - San Francisco

73. Politics and Pedagogy Collective
74, Puktitu Cultural Community Services, Native American Non-Profit Organization
75. Rabbi Lynn Gottlieb, Shomeret Shalom Global Congregation

76. Rethinking Schools

77..San Diego Jewish Action

78. San Diego Unified School District-Ethnic Studies Advisory Committee

79. San Diego Unified School District Superintendent and School Board members
80. San Francisco Arab Resource & Organizing Center {AROC)

81. San Francisco Unified School District Board members

82. San Francisco Supervisors members

83. Senior Rabbi Dev Noily of Kehilla Community Synagogue - Oakland

84. Somos Familia Valle - San.Fernando Valley LGBTQ+ Community Organization
85. South Asian Histories-for All

86. Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC)

87, Step Up! Sacramento

88, Students, in numbers, :at High School, Community College, and University Levels
89, Teachers 4 Social Justice

90. The Arab:Américan Studies Association

91. Third World Liberation Front 1968 Veterans, San Francisco State University

92. Third World Liberation Front 1969 @50, UC Berkeley

93. University of California Davis, Asian American Studies Department

94, University of California Davis, Bulosan Center for Filipino Studies

95. University of California Los Angeles Ethnic Studies Student Committee

96. University of California.Los Angeles Undergraduate Students Association Council
97. University of California Merced, Critical Race & Ethnic Studies Department

98, University of California Riverside, Ethnic Studies Department

99. University of California San Diego, Ethnic Studies Department

100. University of California Santa Cruz, Ethnic Studies Student Committee

101.  University.of California Santa Cruz, Center for Racial Justice

102. University of California Santa Cruz, Critical Race & Ethnic Studies Department
103. United Teachers Los Angeles

104: Union del Barrio ~- California

105. Vietnamese Student Union, UCLA

106. White People for Black Lives

107, Womien:of Color/Non-Binary People of Color Scholars Inclusion Project
108.  Xicanx Institute for Teaching and Organizing

109.. XOCHITL- Xicanx.Organizers Cultivating Humanity & Indigeneity for Teaching and Learning
410.. Youth Together - Oakland

and many more organizations, institutions; bodies, and units, with combined memberships of over 500,000 in support.
Pleasé email SaveCAethnicstudies@gmail.com to add to.our list, and/or to work further with us in this movement for one of
the key educational justice causes of our time. Save CA Ethnic Studies

3. Updates at the CDE Level - from Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition Perspective

a. Ethnic Studies Expert Panel.- in Strong Support of Draft, in Strong Support of Arab American
Studies as.a Part of Asian Américan Studies.

b. West Ed Focus Groups - Noted Advisory Commitee Members Would Be Invited, Were Not

c. Potential Alternate Guiding Principles - Could. Dilute of Transformative Potential

CDE Update 1: Ethnic Studies Expert Panel, occurred on October 15th, 2019
4 Key Findings:

e Expert panelists strongly support the defining and framing of Ethnic Studies as found in the
current draft, and its centering around the four core racialized communities of color. Each panelist
offered a wealth of knowledge from their own experiences with Ethnic Studies.

Expert panelists strongly support the draft's Chapter 1: Introduction and Overview, including the
guiding values, principles, and outcomes.of Ethnic Studies section, the language of Ethnic
Studies present in the draft, the pedagogy section, and the overall draft itself. This support-from
Ethnic Studies leaders and communities is‘significant. While. additional signposting and
scaffolding is possible, diluting the sections and language.currently present would be
compromising imperative CA State Board of Education Ethnic Studies Guidelines. Further, it
would be disregarding the 20 educators of color; one white educator in-solidarity, and Ethnic
Studies experts who already came to consensus. on what this needs to be for the model
curriculum, and which were supported by the 6 additional expert panelists convened for this
session on October 15th, 2019.

*® Asian American Studies expert panelist explicitly insisted Arab American Studies remain under
Asian American Studies and that it not be sacrificed. If the expertise of Asian American Studies
and Ethnic Studies scholars are disregarded here, it must bé considered an act of institutional
racism, Islamophobia, and Ant-Arabism. The Ethnic. Studies expert panel made.clear, Arab
American Studies has a legacy as being a part of Asian American Studies.

Within the.draft and Ethnic Studies, there is room for more inclusion, and for it to still bé within the
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft’s current intersectional framework. This is already implied
in the. draft, and has been evidenced in Ethnic-Studies classrooms, through cultural.and
community responsiveness and deep ancestral inquiry. Expert practitioners including the advisory
committee members and. panelists, can help the CDE integrate this: increased level of student
responsiveness into the next iteration, and. consensus build with various stakeholders on it,
before it goes back to the IOC, and subsquently for public comment. The possibility of developing
this responsiveness and inclusivity further in the draft cannot be ignored, it would be a disservice
to all students of California.

Final question which expert panelists had prepared for was cut from the session.
@ Scheduled 2 hour panel ended 45 minutes early.

e Hosted at the California Department of Education, from 10:00 a.m, - 11:15 a.m. on October 15,
2019.
CDE Update 2: West Ed Focus Groups, with High School Teachers, including those with and
without Ethnic Studies Experience

Nomination Form from West Ed, misleading former.Advisory Committee. members into believing they

would be invited to be‘a part of the focus groups, to help finish the work they began in light of
reasonable public comments, and: with sufficient time. Please see nomination form below for yourself.

WestEd®. | Smartsheet

Ethnic Studies Focus
Group Participation
Nomination

The Region 15 Comprehensive Center (serving CA, NV, AZ, and
UT) housed at WestEd is facilitating focus groups on behalf of
the State Board of Education and the California Department of
Education regarding implementation of an Ethnic Studies
Model Curriculum.

Our intention is to hald the focus.groups during the school day,
reimburse Papo for groun nd travel, and to provide

If you have recommendations for participants whom we
should invite, please fill out this form for each nominee and
submit it. We will contact the participants. you list-for inclusion
in our focus groups.

Thank you!

e Reportback from participants from the first West Ed focus group, held in Sacramento.on
December 4th, 2079.

e Though the current ESMC draft was not an explicit part of the focus groups, participants
in every focus group breakout session emphasized the importance and solid foundation
of the draft, including its introductory chapter, defining of Ethnic Studies, and guiding
values, principles, and outcomes section.

e Further, the following is from‘several participants in the initial West Ed Focus group,
from four different school districts, who were not originally represented on the advisory
committee, yet, who are strongly advocating for the draft and for the advisory committee
to continue being .a formal part of the process moving forward:

We are concerned about the current.model curriculum draft being omitted from
this discussion. We are sure many of the issues discussed here today were already considered,
and we feel it would have been more useful to spend time reconvening the original
committee to revise the work they began. While we appreciate an opportunity to share our
own insights and expertise as Ethnic Studies practitioners, we:see the current model
curriculum draft‘as an important and tful fo ional tool that provides an open door
for school districts to have access to work that is ALREADY being done across our state,
There is no reason that the model curriculum cannot be expanded upon to create more units
that serve as excellent models to build upon. We keep reinventing the wheel in this process

clearly that is a strategy that places obstacles in the way of Ethnic Studies. Don’t ignore

the work that has already been done, and don’t DISRESPECT the educators who already did
the HEART WORK!

Sincerely,
Dec. 4th, West Ed Focus Groups, Teacher and Administrator Participants

Marisa Villegas Tracie Noriega

Ethnic Studies Teacher Director, K-12: Instruction

Oakland Unified School District Tri-Chair, Equity Council

Ethnic Studies Teacher New Haven Unified School District

Dominique Williams Erica Viray-Santos
Ethnic Studies Teacher Ethnic Studies Teacher & Coordinator
Sacramento City Unified School District San Leandro Unified School District

Conclusions:
a} Minimally, former Advisory Committee members should be a part.of the process moving forward as was

indicated would happen by the West Ed nomination form, as CTA, CFA, certain 1QC commissioners, and-all CA
Legislative Cauctisés of Color have requested.

b) Even at the West Ed focus group session, consensus:among Ethnic Studies. communities is loud and clear
— the overall draft, and critical elements of it including the introductory chapter and defining of Ethnic Studies,
the guiding values, principles, and outcomes, pedagogy, cannot be compromised and need to remain in the
curriculum moving forward. Further signposting, scaffolding, and ideally additional wrap around formatting, is
possible to increase readability and accessibility for the largest range of readers, while still remaining critically
grounded in Ethnic Studies as our students deserve. At the conceptual and language level, we cannot dilute it:
40

Possible CDE Update 3: Alternate Guiding Values, Principles, and Outcomes

lt has come to our attention that potential alternate guiding values have been outsourced by the CDE,
to an expert consultant in diversity studies:and multicultural studies, which as our petition explicitly
statés, are not equivalent fields to Ethnic.Studies.

Please refer to update 1 in this section for more dh why not compromising these is so important. The
current draft’s section for this, is classroom-and district tested, already utilized in Ethnic Studies
teacher professional development sessions throughout the state and country, and has: helped
produce the transformative results at helping to narrow and eradicate the achievement/opportunity
gap (education debt), that we know Ethnic Studies is capable. of for our students.

Further, we are thankful that after hearing a presentation about the Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition
movement, the scholar who these potential alternate guiding values’ and principles were outsourced
to, now also supports allowing the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory.Committee Members.
sufficient time to finish their work, and encourages thé. CDE’s close collaboration with the.Save CA
Ethnic Studies Coalition. This is. greatly apprecated.

Pecan er ene et tt a ae et ke ne en tc re Hn He ee ee nese ar ne en Pe a Hn nd Pe Pk Pd Pe Pe Pee Pi ie ae Pl Pa

4. Not Sacrificing Arab American Studies ~ !t is Under ‘the Rubric of Asian American Studies, Per
Leading Asian American Studies and Ethnic Studies Scholars

a. CDE Ethnic Studies Expert Panel, October 15, 2019.- please.refer to pg: 7
b. The Association of Asian. American Studies
c. Chairs of Asian American-Studies Departments

“1

AAAS Statement on the California Ethnic Studies
Model Curriculum

We write as researchers, teachers, and organizers in the field of Asian American. studies. to lend our.
unequivocal support to the inclusion of Arab American studies in the current draft of the California
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMG). The current draft includes Arab American studies under the
rubric of Asian American studies, one of the four recognized pillars of ethnic studies as:a field
formation. Arab American studies: has been a part of the broader field. of Asian American studies for
nearly two decades and ethnic studies since its inception fifty years ago. We oppose current and future
efforts that seek to undermine, dilute, or sideline critical dimensions of the ESMC draft outside the
mandated revision process. It troubles us greatly that a handful of outlier organizations, without a broad
base or representational authority, has attempted to exclude Arab American:studies from the
curriculum. We insist on the inclusion of Arab American studies in the California Ethni¢ Studies. Model
Curriculum.

Asian American’studies as a field-has historically included research and teaching on the U.S.-Philippine
War,.the. Korean War, and the Vietnam War; the mass incarceration of Japanese:Americans during
World War Il; the seizure and militarization of Hawai'i as well as the militarization of Guam, Samoa, and
other Pacific islands; and U.S. nuclear:testing on the Marshall Islands. It is because of the centrality of
U.S. war and militarism as well‘as-anti-imperialism as central tenets of analysis in Asian American
studies that Arab American studies, in the post-9/11 era,.has emerged beth within and in dialogue with
Asian American studies. Topics such as Orientalism, 9/11, U.S. wars of intervention, Islamophobia, the
“war on terror,” and racial securitization oftentimes emerge as explicit intersections between Asian
American and Arab American studies.

In addition, Arab. American studies is institutionally linked with Asian American-studies in critical ways,
The first-ever Aftab American Cultural Center at the University of Illinois, Chicago, was founded by
Nadine Naber; whose appointment. resides in the Global Asian Studies Program. In 2006, the Journal of
Asian American Studies, the flagship journal of the Association for Asian. American Studies, published a
special issue on Asian/Arab-American studies. Amerasia journal, one of the founding journals in. Asian
American.studies, also recently published an issue similarly focused on the intersections of Asian
American and Arab American studies. Moreover, the West Asian Section of the Association for Asian
American Studies.regularly sponsors panels related to Arab-American. issues.

We-urge the California Department of Education (CDE) to be clear-sighted and undeterred in the
inclusion of Arab American studies in the current draft of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
(ESMC). Indispensable to fairness. of process and.soundness of outcome is the continued formal
involvement of the ESMC's original writers and committee members. The CDE must:be.transparent and
accountable to the communities of color who have long agitated for ethnic studies as a democratizing
project.
September 19, 2019
Dear Members of the California Instructional Quality Commission:

We are writing on behalf of the Arab American Studies Association. The Arab American Studies
Association is.a private, non-profit, nonpolitical organization of scholars:and other people
interested in the study of Arab American history, ethnicity, culture, literature,-art and music,
politics, religion, sociology and other aspects.of Arab American experience. The objectives of the
Association are to advance the study of Arabs in diaspora, including in North America.

We write to. applaud the California Department of Education's recognition.of Arab American
Studies as a crucial dimension of an Ethnic Studies curriculum, We find the Arab American
Studies Course Outline to be thorough, enriching, and complex. In drafting the Arab American
Studies Course Outline, the CDE has aligned itself with decades of scholarly and pedagogical
literature in the field of Ethnic Studies, literature that at once illuminates the heterogeneous
histories, fractures, and patterns of Arab American life;.and understands Arab American lives to
bé lived in complex relation to. racism, Orientalism, Islamophobia, and anti-immigrant
sentiment. The Course Outline challenges the prevailing:conflation of Arabs with Muslims,
Persians, and Sikhs; offers nuanced exposure to the histories of Arab immigration and labor;
and recognizes how processes of racialization are linked to law, policy, and culture,

Furthermore, we echo and support the three demands made by the Save California Ethnic
Studies coalition: namely that the defining focus of the Model Curriculum draft remain on the
histories and .sacial justice struggles of communities of color; that the Ethnic Studies
disciplinary pedagogy-and expertise remain at the core of the project; and that the community of
Ethnic Studies practitioners who created and vetted this.curriculum remain at the table as it is
revised and implemented.

Yours sincerely,

Sally Howell
President, Arab American Studies Association

Amira Jarmakani
President-Elect, Arab American Studies Association

Keith P. Feldman
Secretary, Arab American Studies Association
October 14, 2019

Instructional Quality Commission
California Department of Education
1430 N Street

Sacramento, CA 95814-5901

Re: APts for Ethnic Studies’ Statement on the Disciplinary Boundaries of Ethnic Studies
Dear Committee Members:

We, as directors and chairs of Asian American Studies and Ethnic Studies programs in Northern
California, wish to provide input as:youconsider California’s Model. Ethnic Curriculum. Specifically, we
express our support for the inclusion of Arab American ‘and Pacific Islander Studies as an extension of
Asian-American Studies.

Asian American Studies (AAS) has been an academic discipline for the-past fifty years, addressing :the
unique voices, histories, humanities, and issues of this broad, racialized‘group. Emerging fromthe Black
Student Union/Third World Liberation Front strike at SF State University, the founders of Asian American
Studies challenged the twin evils of racism at home and militarism abroad: As this discipline has grown,
it has come to‘encompass more groups and topics, and to develop its own theories. and methodologies.

AAS is partnering with Pacific Islander and Arab American communities in its scholarship because of our
shared regional and social experiences including 1) Orientalization {as coined by Arab American
intellectual, Edward.Said); 2) discrimination and.stereotyping as nonwhites, and.3) colonization of our
lands, cultures, and peoples. As a politicized grouping—as seen in the federal designation of Asian
American Native American Pacific Islander serving institutions (AANAPISI)—we work in-education to
empower our respective communities, fight for.social justice, and effect societal change. Thus, our
courses learning outcomes reflect this mission-across campuses.

Another example of the expansion of Asian American Studies is the faculty position:for both Asian
American Studies.and Critical Pacific Islands and Oceania Studies at SF State: University. Prof. Ponipate
Rokoluketu teaches in both programs, and our-courses will be linked.

Since its founding, AAS has aligned itself with its fellow disciplines in Ethnic Studies: American Indian
Studies, Africana/Black Studies, and Chicano/ Latinx,” groups that have been racialized.as nonwhites
and part of the common struggle for racial justice and equity. In 1972, AAS scholars played:a significant
role in the establishment of National Association of Interdisciplinary Studies for Native Anierican, Black,

+ The.CSU Task Force on the Advancement of Ethnic Studies.defines the field as “the study of race and ethnicity
anchored in. the. histories and philosophies, from the perspective of and in the service of the community-based
needs, of people of color... It will-address the intersectionality of race and.ethnicity with gender, sexuality,
disability, and.other areas from the perspective of ethnic studies; however, will:not speak about or for allied
disciplines.” Report of the CSU Task Force on the Advancement of Ethnic Studies, 2016.
Chicano, Puerto Rican, and Asian Americans (renamed the Association of Ethnic Studies in 2017}. tn
California, AAS has also been constituent program in the broader field ‘of Ethnic Studies.

For instance, in 1992 the CSU Council of Ethnic Studies first convened with an. AAS representative as a
constituent member to respond to the Los Angeles riots and to improve race relations. At that meeting,
this council. reaffirmed that Ethnic Studies should focus on the experiences of people of color through
the four original racialized groups.-At the campus level, in 2002 the Master’s program of Asian American
Studies at-CSU Long Beach was threatened to be cut. This program worked in solidarity with other
programs; it fought to keep the Department.of Africana Studies from being downgraded to only'a
program, and to keep Native American Studies from being folded into the Department of History.

Similarly, by extending AAS.to the experiences of our Pacific Islander and Arab American counterparts,
we are enriching our discipline while demonstrating much-needed solidarity with communities from our
region that.are inadequately represented in-courses across California.

Thank you again for your hard work, and we would appreciate forwarding our suggestions to the
Department of Education and the state legislature.

Prof. Russell Jeung Prof. Robyn Rodriguez
Chair, San Francisco State University AAS Chair, UC Davis AAS

Prof. Genevieve Leung
Chair, on behalf of the University-of San Francisco Asian Pacific American Studies.

Prof. Angie Fa

Chair, City College of San Francisco AAS
Titles and Institutions for Identification Purposes

Cc: Assemblymember Shirley Weber; Dr. Allyson Tintiangco-Cubales
aw “NA ALISORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY

(8})} Monterey Bay

From the sole author whose work 1s specifically
cited in AB 2016 legislation, which brought about

August 23, 2019 : . ? :
this Ethnic Studies model curriculum project.

Tony Thurmond

State Superintendent of Public Instruction
1430 N Street, Suite 5602

Sacramento, CA 95814-5901

Dear Superintendent Thurmond,

Iam writing'in strong support of the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft. I have
carefully reviewed the draft that was crafted over the spring and approved for public
comment in May by the Instructional Quality Commission. As'some background, I have-been
actively involved in multicultural education at a national level since the 1980s (I am a past
president of the National Association for Multicultural Education), and in ethnic. studies for
almost as long. In addition, have reviewed the research on the impact of ethnic studies on
students for the National Education Association (NEA) in 2011. My NEA research review is
the only publication specifically noted in the AB 2016 ethnic studies legislation, and I have
written an update of that review for a book about K-12 Ethnic Studies'that is currently in
press with Teachers College Press.

d - Research on the impact of ethnic studies is quite clear: of the studies
assessing its academic impact, the great majority find a positive impact.on.the achievement
of students of color. In addition, the great-majority find a positive impact.on the racial
attitudes of diverse student-groups that include white.students.

Having spent decades as-a national leader in multicultural education, J can see why this is the
case. Although textbooks:and other curricula now include. contributions of and references to
people of color more now than they used to, the.overall way of looking at the world is still
generally through a white point of view. This is particularly the case when taught by white
teachers, or by teachers who have not grappled with the impact of a white-centered education
on their own worldview. As-students go through the K-12. system, research on students’
perspectives finds ‘students of color iricreasingly distrusting or simply not rélating to. what
they are being taught in school. Unfortunately; this whitening of perspectives has shaped a lot
of what multicultural education has become in K-12 schools. National leaders in
multicultural education such as James Banks and Geneva Gay do not water down its meaning
or implications, but how their work is. taken up in classrooms routinely does so; we cannot
afford for that to happen with ethnic studies.

The: ethnic studies:model curriculum as written centers the perspectives and experiences of
cominunities marginalized on the basis of race, and the ancestral knowledge of peoples who
are not of European descent. To achieve the positive impact on students that research finds
ethnic:studies capable of effecting, that centering must remain. It is of value for white
students to engage in such a curriculum, but white perspectives cannot dilute its focus-on
peoples of color. Being white myself, this: is something I have spent my professional life
grappling with. I stand ready to help Californians figure out how to help white people
navigate ethnics studies, but not if the curriculum itself moves away. from centering Black,
Latinx, Indigenous, Asian American, and Arab American experiences and perspectives.

Sincerely,

if A A5 -
Christine Sleeter
Professor Emerita
From the founders of Ethnic Studies in California, twLF
50 years ago. SruSeS aM

September 20th, 2019

Dear California Instructional Quality Commission;

We are representing the original members of the University of California, Berkeley (UCB) Third
World Liberation Front (TWLF), who in 1969, went ona university student strike to demand.a
Third World College, the right to see: ourselves reflected in our curriculum. Together with the
San Francisco State University TWLF, ours remain the two longest student strikes‘in United
States history. At UC Berkeley, our department of Ethnic Studies was founded in 1969 because
of our effort for educational and racial justice for students of color. Today, our legacy continues,
and TWLE members from throughout five decades of struggle are > joining us for this cause. We

Although Ethnic Studies courses, programs, and departments coritinue to exist in many
institutions of higher learning, few have been recognized and institutionalized with the level of
academic credibility, acceptance, and support that they deserve. Today, the California
Department of Education has the opportunity, and the responsibility to our staté’s high school
students, to institiitionalize authentic Ethnic Studies within its public school curricula and course
offerings. Our state’s-core curriculum. has been derelict forthe past 50 years in providing more
inclusivity and a diversity of viewpoints within its courses, classrooms, and textbooks sparingly
adding historical or cultural references limited to a handful of excéptional figures like César
Chavez and Maya Angelou. The participation and contributions.of Native American,
Chicanx/Latinx, African American, and Asian American communities run so deep in the
development and shaping of our country, and yet the curriculum still does not reflect these
stories. These communities have shaped the history, culture, social and labor movements, fine
arts, literature, sciences and mathematics, sports, and all.othet realms of our country’s
development.

Ethnic Studies courses, with: a commitment to holding up these historically silenced voices, must
be integral to our schools’ curricula ‘as they will broaden ‘our students’ critical thinking, learning,
and personal achievement, Creating more understanding and connection for our.youth is, indeed,
liberating.and necessary: for ALL of our students.
Sincefely,

University of California, Berkeley
Third. World Liberation Front, TWLF@S50 Years

Floyd Huen, Class of 1969

Ysidro Macias, Class of 1969 &.1971

Betty Kano, Class of 1969 & 1978

Gregory Yee Mark, Class of 1969

Clementina Durdén, Class of 1970

Nina Genera, Classes of 1970 & 1973

Alvin Ja, Class of 1971

Jean Quan, Class of 1971

Victoria Wong, Class of 1971

Jose Joel Garcia, Class of 1973

Marcelo Felipe Garzo Montalvo Classes of 2009, 2012, & Ph.D. Candidate
Marisol Silva, Class of 2009, & Ph.D. Candidate
Alex. Mabanta, Class of 2016, & Ph.D, Candidate

with:

Alberto Bernal, Amy Y. Lin, Pablo Gonzalez, Astrid Gonzales, Beatriz M. Pesquera,
Bea Dong; Belvin Louie, Betty Kano, Blanca Quintanilla, Bob. Wing,

Barrie Quan, Brian Tom, Xamuel Bajfiales, Maria Ramirez; Carlos Mufioz Jr.,

Cynthia, Ledesma, Melody Chao, LaNada War Jack, Harvey C. Dong,

Roberto D. Hernandez, Daisy Fang, Donna Soliz, Edel Romay, Francisco Hermandez,
Lupe Gallegos-Diaz, Rafael Yamir Gomez-Carrasco, Steven Wong, Jennie Luna,

Johnny Nguyen, Jesus Maldonado, Joanne Yi, Lotus Fong, Jeff Leong, Tomas Almaguer,
Ling-chi Wang, Manuel R. Delgado, Salomon Quintero, Richard Lim.
Representing Ethnic Studies departments across 22
campuses of the Cal State University system.

clo Office of the College of Ethnic Studies
César E. Chavez Institute

San Francisco State University

1600 Holloway Avenue EP103

San Francisco, CA $4132

August 14. 2019

Dear Assemblymembers Medina‘and Weber and other interested parties:
Subject: What.is and is NOT Ethnic Studies

First, Jet me‘convey my appreciation to both of you and the continued support of the California State
University (CSU) Council.on Ethnic Studies for both AB331 and AB1460.. We have been made aware
of discussions that seem to be confusing and. conflating the discussion of Ethnic Studies, the disciplinary
area, and the study of ethnicity, race.or other demographics. by other disciplinary areas. I.am attaching
the original letter from our council in support of AB1460 and am expanding here on what it means to be
Ethnic Studies and; probably more importantly what it means to NOT be Ethnic Studies..I will explain
in reverse order.

Ethnic Studies is NOT any disciplinary study of ethnicity or race. As my colleague Professor Craig
Stone from CSU Long Beach put it during deliberations for the-CSU Chancellor's Task Force on the

have been created. Before 1968, many humanities, social science and science. disciplines studied
ethnicity and race, but they just did ‘so poorly arid in’a manner dangerous to people of color, the various
peoples where were considered non-White and were historically-oppressed for being non-White in
America, African, Asian, Latmo and Native Americans.

Ethnic Studies is the discipline that:grew out of the, yes admittedly political, and academic context to
decetiter White Studies, White Supremacy and thé privileged’ White narrative of the American
experience. Ethnic Studies.re-centered the studies of people of-color, African/Black American, Asian
American, Latino/Raza and Native/Indigenous Americans to insure that the study of ethnicity and race
in relationship to these peoples were‘done centered. from the perspective, questions, neéds.and
aspirations of the peoples being studied, in intentional counter narrative to that which-centered the study
of people of color fromthe pérspectives, needs, questions, and aspirations of White Supremacy or
Whiteness as some inherent norm for humanity. Ethnic. Studies is, therefore, an explicit counternarrative
to decolonize the academic riarratives, which would speak or act on people of color without our
permission and without our self-determineéd interest at the center of the studies. There are many other
disciplines and studies with long histories studying ethnicity or race as.central or secondary to their
Studies, but not with this disciplinary center. Thus, theré are some studies that.center or at least. address
the sopics of race or ethnicity, but they do:not center the experiences, intellectual traditions, and
liberation struggles of people of color in America, where "people of color" is.an idiomatic phrase
teferring to the peoples historically .and continuously excluded from‘and oppressed by the project of
Whiteness. We appreciate those-other studies, but distinguish ourselves from them.

California State University (CSU) Campuses
Bakersfield’ * Channel Islands » Chica * Dominguez Hills « East Bay » Fresno » Fullerton * Humboldt * Long Beach
Los Angeles + Maritime Academy * Monterey Bay * Northridge » Pomona * Sacramento * San Bernardino * San Diego
San Francisco *» San Jasé + San Luis Obispo * San Marcos * Sonoma » Stanislaus
For.example, any studies of European ethnic groups or groups assimilated into or overlapping with
Whiteness aré typically not within the scope. of Ethnic Studies, except when centered in the experiences
of people of color who are doing critical or comparative studies examining those experiences in the
Ethnic Studies context. Therefore, the study of Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, or Polish ethnicities would
fit within traditional White or Euro-centered curricula, not modern Ethnic Studies.

Specifically, we have been told that some legislators are arguing that Jewish Studies is iin Ethnic Studies.
Jewish Studies has over'a century of tradition in the American Academy as either religious or
cultural/multicultural studies, but it has no academic tradition inside of Ethnic Studies at any point in the
50-year history‘of the field. This does not diminish the importance of Jewish Studies; tothe contrary, it
simply respects its academic tradition. Jewish Studies for the most part was a project to. understand the
assiinilation of American Jews into American: Whitenéss. The portion that was not assimilationist into
Whiteness:still did not focus on Jews of color, African/Black Jews, Asian Jews, etc., and definitely did
not ré-center Jewish Studies.as a people of color, decolonial project: As a practical datum point, when
the CSU Task Force on Advancing Ethnic Studies and polled the 23 Campuses for a listing of Ethnic
Studies departments, units, or programs, not.a single campus registered Jewish Studies among their
Ethnic Studies offerings.

As an educator and scholar who allies strongly and regularly with Jewish Studies, has collaborated with
a K-12 Holocaust studies program, chaired the-committee that hired the first endowed chair in Jewish
Studies, and was lead administrative support for San Francisco State’s nationally heralded report on.
President's Task Force on Inter-group Relations: Initial Focus on the Effect of Middle East Issues on
Campus Life (a collaborative work thatincluded scholars. and community members from the Arab,
Jewish, and Muslini communities among others). I strongly support those who wish to advance Jewish
Studies, but not by compromising the academic integrity of either Ethnic Studies or Jewish Studies.
This argument is broader than Jewish Studies, but we are receiving specific.questions about Jewish
Studies. and therefore wanted to.address this. directly. Jewish Studies-and other.studies-not rooted in
Ethnic Studies as defined above may be supported in their own and appropriate legislation, policy and
practice. They can call on us as allies to assist: them, as we call on them to support us now, but we must
all resist having our academic integrity compromised by political expediencies, for the sake of all
legitimate academic studies.

Sincerely,

Professor Kenneth P: Monteiro, (for identification purposes only)
Former Dean, College: of Ethnic Studies

Acting Director, César E. Chavez Institute

Coordinator,.CSU. Counéil on Ethnic Studies

Member, CSU Chancellor’s Task Force on Advancing Ethnic Studies
Board of Supervisors City and-County of San Francisco

MATT HANEY
DISTRICT 6

September 5, 2019

California Department of Education
1430.N. Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Honorable California State. Superintendent Tony Thurmond and Board of Education
President, Dr. Linda. Darling-Hammond:

lam writing to express my concern and disappointment regarding your recent decision. to end the
current effort to revise thé existing draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC).

As the. former President of the San Francisco Board of Education 1 have led initiatives

to beiter support.students of color who have often felt marginalized, especially when critical
decisions about their education are. being made. After talking with students and their families
they’ve expressed deep concerns tome about feeling unrepresented in the classroom curriculum.
Their stories are missing. in textbooks where the rich culture and history oftheir community is
blatantly ignored. It is incredibly vital that we support the ESMC so that all children understand
that everyone’s history is equally important.

that the ESMC is anti-Semitic and/or an erasure oft the Jewish experience in the United States is
misguided and wrong. I ask that you reconsider your opposition to the-established process and _

As we- commemorate the 50" Anniversary of the establishment of the field of Ethnic Studies, we
emphasize that Ethnic Studies centers.the experiences and viewpoints of people of color within,
as well as beyond, the United States: San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD) is
cominitied to honoring this long-standing mission. While Ethnic Studies acknowledges that
Jewish, Armenian, Irish, Italian, and other European ethnic groups have undergone’ oppression

Board-of Supervisors City and.County of San Francisco

Ethnic Studies was created to address the ‘long-standing omissions and misrepresentations of the
natratives.of Native Americans, African Americans, Latinx and Asian Americans in the United
States. Given the histories of these communities, it is imperative that these perspectives remain

the central. focus of the field.

While there are:tremendous challenges'to the creation of a single resource that speaks to all

Sincerely,

Matt Haney
Supervisor, District 6
San Francisco Board.of Supervisors
BLACK
LIVES
MATTER

August 15, 2019

California instructional Quality Commission
and State Board. of Education

Re: Ethnic Studies. Model Curriculum — Support

On behalf of the Black Lives Matter Global Network’s California Chapters, we write.to express our support for the Ethnic Studies
Model Curriculum as submitted and to oppose proposed modifications that would expand the definition of Ethnic Studies beyond its
scope, wheréby eroding its intent:.As you know, Black Studies is; perhaps, the most enduring victory of the Black Power era. Asa
current iteration of the Black freedom movement, Black Lives Matter understands the deep importance of Ethnic Studies.and its four
sub-disciplines: African-American/Africana/Black Studies, Asian/Asian-American. Studies (including API Studies), Chicanx/Latinx
Studies, and-Indigenous/Native American Studies, espécially in-an era of soaring hate crimes, White-supremacist rhetoric, racist
policy-making, and White-supremacist violence against racialized “others,” especially Black and Latinx communities.

A Stanford University study demonstrates that in-school districts where quality-Ethnic Studies curricuta are implemented, students
experienced a rise in grade-point-average.of up to an entire point. A California State University, Los Angeles study affirms that.
studerits who enroil in at least one Ethnic Studies course perform better overal!, even in seerningly unrelated courses like math and
science. Moreover, scholars like Gloria Ladson-Billings-assert that Ethnic Studies curricula. enable students to develop greater
cultural-competency and are-much better equipped to engage diverse communities.

The passage of AB 2016 indicates that the California Legislature.sees Ethnic Studies as a worthwhile investment for the students of
the state. As such, the integrity of Ethnic Studies must be protected. The Model Curriculum, as submitted, protects.the integrity of
Ethnic Studies and engages the field in a. manner that fosters a greater understanding: and embrace of-groups that have been
historically oppressed by race in the Americas. The proposed curriculum further engages the intersectionality of each group, without
collapsing race-based oppression and resistance with other axes, like culture and religion. While the expansion of the definition of
Ethnic Studies might appear to advance “tolerance,” it does so at the expense of deepening our cammitment to the communities
that have been .most marginalized by race.-Ethnic Studies is. not the same as. “multicultural studies,” “diversity studies,” ar-even
“American Studies.” The thrust of Ethnic Studies focuses.on the particujar (and intersectional) experiences of the four historically
oppressed racialized groups. We offer our strong support of the current model curriculum and encourage the Commission to accept
the definition.as presented by virtually every. scholar in the field.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincérely,

Melina Abdullah, Ph.D.
for the Black Lives Matter Global Network, California Chapters
CHAIR:

MEMBERS:
ASSEMBLYMEMBER DAVID CMU Assembly ASSEMBLYMEMBER ROE BONTA

. ASSEMBLYMEMBER EQ CHAU
VIGE CHAIR: (far SMBLYMEMBE SEN CHU
ASSEMBLYMEMBER AL MUBATSUCH: California J Regislature NOSE MBLYMEMBER Toop GLONIA

SENATOR RICHARD FAN

PARLIAMENTARIAN:
ASSEMBLYMEMBER ASH KALBA

ASSEMBLYMEMBER EVAN LOW
ASSEMBLYMEMBER ADRIN NAZARIAN
ASSEMBLYMEMBER PHILIP ¥, TING

ASIAN PACIFIC ISLANDER
LEGISLATIVE CAUCUS

October 24, 2019

The Honorable Tony Thurmond
Superintendent of Public. Instruction
California Department of Education
1430 N Street

Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Superintendent Thurmond:

ative Caucus, we write |
We appreciate the efforts and
expertise of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Adi sory ‘Committee arid the opportunity
provided by the Instructional Quality Commission (IOC) and your office to continue stakeholder
engagement for future revisions to make the curriculum even stronger.

Ethnic-studies is imperative to student learning and growth. The APi Legislative Caucus has
advocated for and. championed legislation to. mandate this:course in.our schools in direct
response to the Needs we have. heard from.our communities.

This curriculum is.a vital framework for California public. schools across the state, and we must
work to ensure the model curriculum is inclusive and free:from bias. Stakeholders from the API
community :have shared their concerns about the draft and have submitted their comments. One
major concern is that some API communities are missing from the-curriculum such as Korean,
Lao and South Asian. In the Pacific |slander curriculum, there are. consistency issues such as
the use of “Guamanian’ and “Chamorro” as interchangeable. We encourage.the IQC to examine
these.comments seriously to ensure that the diversity of our AP] communities are represented
and that the information is accurate.

Additionally, the AP! Legislative Caucus shares the Jewish community's concerns with the
current draft of the ESMC as it pertains to the omission of anti-Semitism. In our.current climate,
we must provide. our students with accurate information and avoid a curriculum that will
marginalize or promote discrimination.

We understand that, as Superintendent; you are.halding.a statewide series of listening and
feedback sessions with stakeholders including teachers, school districts and other experts to
ensure that this model curriculum reflects our.diversity. We encourage the Instructional Quality
Commission and your office to consider the comments referenced in this letter as the next

Please count on us.as a_partner to disseminate information to our API communities on future
stakeholder engagement opportunities. Thank. you for your commitment.to. providing all of
California's students with a comprehensive curriculum that allows students to think critically and
learn about our state’s diversity.

Sincerely,
DAVID CHIU

Assemblymember, 17th A.D.
Chair, Asian Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus

VIVE OFFICE BUN SING, 1920 N STREET. #375. SACRAMENTO, Ca 95614
CALIFORBTA LATING LEGISCATIVE CAUCLS

November 25, 2049

Honorable Tony Thurmond
Superintendent of Public Instruction
Califormia Department of Education
1430 N-Street

Sacramento, CA.95814

RE: Draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Superintendent Thurmond:

On behalf of the California Latino Legislative Caucus (Latino Caucus), we-write in strong support of keeping
the draft Ethnic Studies Model Curticulum (ESMC) process moving forward. We offer our sincere praise to
all the educators; officials and residents. that have dedicated their time and energy to the development of
the ESMC.

For- many Californians, the establishment.of a mode! curriculum in ethnic studies has been a mission for
decades. The Latino Caucus has long supported this. mission and has prioritized the adoption of legislation
requiring the teaching of ethnic studies in our schools. At its core, ethnic studies is the untold stories of four
main communities of color- African-Americans, Latinos, Native Americans and Asian-Americans. We
understand, and research has supported, the importance of teaching students the untold stories of
discrimination and racism faced by these communities. Ethnic studies is a multidisciplinary study centered
on_anti-racism. Furthermore, research shows that ethnic studies courses give students a pathway to break
the’cycle of poverty, violence and incarceration that many communities of color face.

The adéption of a comprehensive curriculum that accurately reflects the vast diversity and historical
significance of ethnic cultures in our society is long overdue, Now more than ever, California's siudents,
who are growing up in a miajority-minority state, deserve the opportunity to learn the true history of their
ancestors, including sobering topics of racial bias, legal inequities and societal marginalization. The
exposure to an ethnic studies curriculum benefifs all students (in and out of the classroom) by broadening
their knowledge of history and raising cultural awareness. Moreover, ethnic. studies has a positive impact
on academic engagement, better test scores, and improved graduation rates.

Assemblewer arena Gonzalez Senator }

Darazo

SPRAY OES
Hob Archuloia, Arma Cabslicee, Lena A. Gonzales, Ren Heese, Mefinss Hyrtode, Susan Kalis
PMYMEMBERS

“. Barner, Speat

F020 N Street, Suite SLb + hacramento, C4 CSR» Phane (526) 651-1

Pointed an Fac
Page Two
November 25, 2049
Draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

Ethnic studies goes.deeper than multiculturalism and the stakes are too high for our students to discard
work of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee and the Instructional. Quality
Commission. It is: for the aforementioned reasons that we write in strong support of keeping the process of
the. ESMC moving forward. We are grateful that you are overseeing the process that will lead to the timely
adoption of an historic ethnic studies model curriculum. We hope the ensuing review period will only serve
to strengthen the draft curriculum by bolstering its historical integrity and not substantially delaying its
finalization.

Thank you for your consideration of this fetter. Our caucus-stands ready to assist you in this important
endeavor in any way you deem necessary. Should you have-any questions or need additional information
please do not hesitate to call us at (916) 651-1535.

Sincerely

Bere — NL Ele lp —

RENA GONZALEZ MARIA ELENA DURAZO
Chair, CA Latina Legislative Caucus Vice Chair, CA Latino Legistative Caucus
Assemblywoman, 80" District Senator, 24" District
ce:

Members, California Latino Legislative Caucus
1/14/2020 Ethnic Studies Curticislum:Should be Required in all California High Schools:! Berkeley High Jacket

Ethnic Studies Curriculum Should be Required in all
California High Schools
By.a 10th grade Ethnic Studies high school student.

BY ANJUNA MASCARENHAS-SWAN

If you go te Berkeley High School (BHS), you’ve likely experienced the loaded question “So
what do you think of Ethnic Studies?” at some point in your high school career. As the Ethnic
Studies movement grows in. popularity, the debate has become a statewide discussion, After a
long:fought battle, California recently mandated Ethnic Studies curriculum in public schools,
although there have been delays in the implementation due to struggles over curriculum
content. Luckily, here at BHS, the curriculum has already been adopted for students in their
freshman year. The positive effects on students enrolled in this course prove ethnic studies
should be taught for at least one semester at all high schools in California. For the class to be
effective, the curriculum should be regulated in order to ensure that the class remains a safe
space for all students. This-will help promote open, critical thinking, and encourage a better-
educated future generation.

Critics have accused drafts of the curriculum of promoting a left wing political agenda and
containing bias against Israel and Jews. They object to the proposed syllabus promoting social

hetps:/fberkeleyhighjacket.com/opinion/ethnic-studies-curriculum-should-be-requized-in-all-california-high-schools/ v6
1414/2020 Ethnic Studies Curriculum Should be Required in all California-High Schools | Berkeley High Jacket
justice organizing and examining the privilege that each student holds. After this backlash,
the curficulum developers went back to the drawing board to create an educational program
that balances the core values central to Ethnic Studies as well as. pleases the political bodies
fundamental to ensuring that the course can exist in classes statewide. Three members of the
California Board of Education released a press statement, saying that “A model curriculum
should be accurate, free of bias, appropriate for all learners in our diverse state, and align with
Governor Newsom’s vision of.a California for all.” Prioritizing these three goals for the
curriculum will address the critique of intrinsic bias.

However, Ethnic Studies in and of

itself will always seemtoalignwith ,._..,
leftist politics and ideals, and stendance {
claiming that the class is biased

because of that fact i is simply

AGRA
Taicrease

Additionally, there is some concern that such a class will create a toxic environment for non
POC students-or foster.a space that only welcomes certain political ideals and isolates others.
In reality, Ethnic Studies does not condone values that mirror or perpetuate hate speech, or
that dehumanize or demonize groups of people for their identity.. However, by creating a
space where open dialogtie is encouraged and students are taught how to engage in respectful
and thoughtful debate through relationship based learning, } SS Ci
bridge political and moral differences and cultivate an environment

hitps://berkeleyhighjacket.com/opinion/ethnic-studies-cutriculum-should-be-required-in-all-california-high-schools/ 2/6
1/14/2020 Ethnic. Studies Curriculum Should be Required it all California High Schools t Berkeley High Jacket

nderst 1a’ 3 sie urthermore, this same rhetoric

still pushing

: : In fact, thnic Studies can
often make students who might typically struggle i in school feel more comfortable in their
environment. A Stanford study of high school students in ethnic studies found significant
improvements in student performance. The research paper, authored by Thomas Dee and
Emily Penner, expressed that “Overall, [their] findings indicate that a culturally relevant
curriculum implemented in a.strongly supportive context can be highly effective at. improving
outcomes among a diverse group of academically at-risk students.”

The Ethnic Studies experience at BHS however, is bound to be.a different one than anywhere
else in California, simply because of the unique political and economic situation.that exists in
Berkeley. How is it possible to regulate such a class where the outcome and overall messages
that are formulated in that environment. are so often very dependent on the teacher.or
studenits.in that class? The answer may be:simpler than we think. By instituting strict
curriculum and creating a controlled hiring process for all teachers wishing to teach the.class,
a certain degree of control can be exercised over the direction that the class takes, which is
more than most students would say about standard history classes.

These values taught in Ethnic Studies can be kept with students for the rest of their life,
throughout any career, and their formal education. Here at BHS, we can already see how the
class has furthered a culture of activism and political awareness simply from the
implementation during students freshman year. Imagine what a year of the class could do’at a
school where the political climate-is even less. suited for such a subject. By ensuring that
students have access to this knowledge and skills now, we create a more aware, prepared
future for generations to come, which is not something to take lightly in this era.

& ANJUNA MASCARENHAS-SWAN ig September 2019 Published in Opinion

What do you think?

https://berkeleyhighjacket.com/opinion/ethnic-studies-curricul um-should-be-required-ia-all-california-high-schools/ 6
Ethnic: studies is about.interrupting racism in America... The. real question-is, can California
come together to demonstrate.to the entire world that a diverse community.can unite to make
this possible? Well, now is that time.

The following are a few select CA State Board of Education (SBE) Ethnic Studies
Guidelines that the current draft is already on an excellent trajectory with, and which the
ESMC-MCAC and Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition, in consensus building with diverse
stakeholders, can help further’strengthen and scaffold. Diluting the Curriculum, would be doing a
disservice to these SBE guidelines, and most importantly, would be doing.a grave disservice to
students throughout California: who deserve an authentic-Ethnic Studies curriculum, including
the disciplinary framing, .language, and guidance of the field which is already within it, and which
the SBE guidelines below, clearly encourage. We cannot compromise that because.of pressure
from outside communities of color. Fidelity to the field, including:‘by keeping the introductory
chapter in the current ESMC draft, and only further-signposting, and scaffolding, as necessary,
is imperative: We owe it to our current and future teachers of Ethnic Studies, and students
throughout California. The foitowing SBE guidelines make this clear:

Promote critical thinking and rigorous analysis of history, systems of oppression,
and the status quo in an effort. to generate discussions on futurity,-and imagine
new possibilities.

include accurate information based on current.and confirmed research (from the
field of Ethnic Studies)

Promote self and collective empowerment;

Promote the values of civic engagement.and civic responsibility;

Include information on the ethnic studies movement, specifically the Third World
Liberation Front (TWLF), and its significance in the establishment of ethnic studies
as.a discipline and work in promoting diversity and inclusion within higher

education;

Engage a range of disciplines beyond traditional history and social sciences,
including but not limited to: visual and performing arts, English language arts,
economics, biology, gender & sexuality studies, etc.

Engage pedagogies that allow for student and community responsiveness,
validate students’ lived experience, and address socioemotional development;

Be inclusive, creating space for all students regardless of race, ethnicity, class,
gender, sexuality, or citizenship, to learn different perspectives.
A Review of A Few California Instructional Quality Commissioner Statements, on 9/20/19
~ Especially to help new IQC commissioners with more context from this meeting

Not to remove some of the language.. the X.. Latinx.. but to.give it more of a definition maybe as
part of the wrap around in the model curriculum... | also think it’s. important that. we consider and
work with the original expert advisory committee. that was part of that process. | feel and ] know
the idea of time is now here, that we continue to work with those practitioners since they are our
K-12 teachers. They weren't really given sufficient time, ya.know, that they have the opportunity
to be that Ethnic Studies voice, because they are the.voices of our children in the classroom.

~ Commissioner. Mufioz

"I'vé spent a lot of time dealing with many of the issues that people have raised here today and
it's interesting to hear them, because there are answers to those issues they've raised.. When
you hear young people saying 'this saved my life’, it has some significance, in terms of -what
history does for individuals, and what happens when you’re not included inthe history at all...

99% of the curriculum is probably pretty good... If you went out-and rewrote the whole
curriculum again, you'd probably have even more problems than you have right now, so you
have to careful in what you're trying to do... Most folks have said that.the vast majority is good...
it’s interesting after 45 years of hearing the same conversation over and. over, | hear it.again,
and | appreciate that folks are still interested in Ethnic Studies, so obviously it has a real need in
the state, in this.state particularly and maybe.even across the:country. So | look forward to the
conversations that are there and hopefully | can be of some assistance, on the expert panel, but
also here on the IQC.

~ Commissioner & Assemblymember Weber

“First | want to start by saying, that we -- ihe conversations that we’re having; the weight that a
lot of this content halds for a lot of individuals including myself is a conversation that hardly any
states out there are having, so | first want to applaud everybody from the CDE to the advisory
committee, to members of the public that came to speak today, and submitted public comments.
This is an important conversation that we're on the forefront of in terms of in our state and on
these. topics: | also want to recommend that the CDE keep in mind that... the existing curricular
frameworks, specifically World History frameworks and US History frameworks, because some
of the specific historical events that have been mentioned today, and on online public comment,
and some of the foreign policy issues, have been covered in those frameworks: So | think its
important to remember that.as we talk about Ethnic Studies, this is a model curriculum that
doesn’t supplant what's already being taught. And | think a lot of individuals within education
and outside of education might not realize the extent to which some particular topics are already
being taught. It’s important to kéep in mind that Ethnic Studies.and World History curriculum,
students will be recieving both at sometime, so hopefully both will continue be as inclusive as
possible, but just keep that in mind.”

~ Commissioner Rustin
“{ agree there is a ton of good stuff in here and | think that was acknowledged by many of the
folks who read the full curriculum... There. have been people who have asked me, is this an
antisemitic curriculum? It's: not. | don't think that's a fair way to characterize it. | think thing there
were things in the curriculum that were very problematic... I'm heartened when | hear everybody
seems to agree that those kind of thing ought tobe about.and ought to be revised and ‘ought to
be.a way for us. to make sure this is really about mutual understanding and people coming
together...

| do continue to believe that this curriculum ought to be centralized on the four key communities
of color, but! do think ‘there's a lot of broader stories that can help to contextualize... an
opportunity for-us to bring in a lot of different stories as we are. still focusing on the key stories of
the four communities of color. And that's. going to be a nuanced thing, and every teacher will
have to. play that.out in their classrooms based on the demographics of their own community
and that's-going to be tricky...

Ultimately this ought to be about increasing empathy for everybody... If we really understood
how much our own family histories -- how similar some.of the stories are, you-know, the same
kind of terrible vitriol, that was launched against the ancestors of Italian American students back
in the late 19th century is how being launched against folks coming up. from Latin America or
elsewhere, | think we just increase our empathy for everyorie and have a better understanding
of where we're all coming from in our mutual humanity, and so: think that's the beauty of what
we're trying to do here: with this.curriculum, and | really do continue ‘to have.a lot of optimism
and hope that we will craft something, that will be something that really we.can all be proud of,
that will help to uplift voices that have been: underheard and that will continue to-change tives,
particularly in those communities that have been so marginalized in our society.”

~ Commissioner & Senator Allen

“| want to start appreciating the advisory committee for this model curricufum, crafting it. We atso
want.to appreciate the writers.... ] understand that Ethnic Studies is not indoctrination. It's
history; it's validation; it's rigorous education that leads to college.and career and civic
engagement... | want to emphasize some. of our SBE adopted curriculum principles; ‘promote
critical thinking, rigorous analysis... systems of oppression:and the status quo’, highlight ‘justice,
race, equity, ethnicity, indigeneity’...

We want to make sure our students have the skills to interrogate:the systems of oppression, but
it has.to be done in a way that is inclusive, promote self and collective empowerment,. which is
one of our guiding principles, and we look forward ta working with educators, experts...

There's a lot of good content in our current model curriculum and we want to make sure-we
broaden that.”
~ SBE Member Ortiz-Licon
“And the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee, the State Board very much
appreciates the diligent, impassioned, and committed work, that brought it to this point. We have
a good start. We have a valuable conversation going on that's really engaging everybody...

We're.going to be using the. coming year very wisely, it's just.such important work that we heard
from everyone and we want to get this right, we don't want to.rush it, we want the document to
represent what we have committed to, both with legistation and with our guidelines... Just
remember that the model curriculum is:a guidance document that will help our students
understand society, their peers and themselves, but it’s a guidance document to help the adults
do the.work in the schools as well, and it has to be empowering and inspire empathy...

We know there will be difficult conversations ahead but we're hoping that this will bring all of our
colleagues together around the important work. We do have the students' best interest at heart
and we will stay committed through the process to full approval of this document. Thank you all
for what you’ve done to this point and also the work coming ahead which we know will be really
important and engaging and very thoughful. Thank you on behalf of the State Board of
Education.”

~ SBE Board Member Ilene Strauss

“Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition is here to help the consensus building moving
forward. All stakeholders who would like to join us in this, please let us. know.”

yes

saveCAethnicstudies@gmail.com

