July 27,2019
Dr Linda Darling-Hammond
State Board President
14030 N St, Suite 5111
Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear President Dr. Darling-Hammond;
l am writing about the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. As a woman of color i totally reject the proposed curriculum. It will do nothing to foster success in young ethnic students. But will make helplessness worse. Stop pandering to the loudest voices of extremism.
Firstly, my great grandparents fled a socialist dictatorship. Our family came here because of the freedom of capitalism and the free market. My family took advantage of opportunities, studied and worked hard and now we are in the middle class by our own efforts, The idea the capitalism and free markets are racist is preposterous and intellectually dishonest. Capitalism is not racist or discriminatory. It is neutral and color blind and the giver of opportunity. That is why so many people want to come here and not to other countries. Success depends on the work ethic and perseverance but capitalism is not a road block. While capitalism came from the European culture so did socialism of all stripes, including communism and fascism. So if the Board is condemning capitalism then they must condemn them all. In truth the only form of economy that has improved people's lives is capitalism and a free market. All the other forms of dictatorship; royalty, feudalism and all the socialism are enslaving and take away personal dignity.
Second, the Board's selection of role models is inappropriate and self-defeating. All of the person selections are poor role models for children to learn that hard work and perseverance pays off for success. Your selections will only create more angry, entitled and bitter citizens. They then become "victims" that dooms them to a lack of success and a downward spiral. What are they thinking? The role models should demonstrate positive values and pride in their ethnic group and America, in general, to lead them to success. Some real possibilities to replace the list already selected personalities, that have achieved great things include George Washington Carver, Jackie Robinson, Martin Luther King, Thomas Soule, Admiral Harry Harris, Judge Sotomayer, Isabel Allende, Luis Walker Alvarez, David Barkley, Mario Molina, Vickie Sato, Maya Lin or Indira Noovi. They are real positive role models and made America and the world a better place unlike your selected persons. Are you trying to empower ethnic minorities or ruin their future. Your list will make them bitter, entitled and angry people. My lit will elevate them, showing them that hard work and perseverance lead to success. Change your list.
Please change the curriculum to be inclusive of the value of capitalism, and positive role models that can lead to success.
Thank you,
Roberta Wolk