Public Input Template-2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations)
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.qov with any questions regarding this template or the public input process.
Chapter of Model Curriculum	Your Name and Affiliation	Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)
[Enter the Chapter Number here, or just “General” for a comment that applies to the entire document.]	[Enter Your Name] [Enter the agency, organization, or business that you represent, if applicable.]	[Include the page and line number(s) here-Write your comment here]
GENERAL	MARILYN KLEIN	ENDORSE OBJECTIONS OF WILLIAMSON M. EVERS PUBLISHED IN WSJ 7/30/19. PROPOSAL IS A TRAVESTY - NO WONDER CA SCHOOLS RATED NEAR BOTTOM OF ALL 50 STATES.
		
		
		
		
California Wants to Teach Your Kids That Capitalism Is Racist • I
By Williamson M. Evers
/^ alifornia’s Education Depart-■ ment has issued an “Ethnic VV> Studies Model Curriculum” and is soliciting public comments on it until Aug. 15. The legislatively mandated guide is a resource for teachers I who want to instruct their students in the field of “ethnic studies,” and was written by an advisory board of teachers, academics and bureaucrats. V It’s as bad as you imagine.
Ethnic studies is described in the document as "the interdisciplinary (study of race, ethnicity, and indige-neity with an emphasis on experiences of people of color in the United States.” But that’s not all it is. “It is the study of intersectional and ancestral roots, coloniality, hegemony, and a dignified world where many worlds fit, for present and future generations.” It is the “xdisciplinary [sic], loving, and critical praxis of holistic humanity.”
The document is filled with fash-^ionable academic jargon like "positionalities,” "hybridities,” "nepantlas” and “misogynoir.” It includes faddish ^social-science lingo like “cis-hetero-patriarchy” that may make sense to (radical university professors and activists but doesn’t mean much to the
regular folks who send their children to California’s public schools. It is difficult to comprehend the depth and breadth of the ideological bias and misrepresentations without reading the whole curriculum—something few will want to do.
Begin with economics. Capitalism is described as a "form of power and oppression,” alongside “patriarchy,” "racism,” "white supremacy” and "ableism.” Capitalism and capitalists appear as villains several times in the document.
On politics, the model curriculum 4 is similarly left-wing. One proposed course promises to explore the African-American experience "from the precolonial ancestral roots in Africa to the trans Atlantic slave trade and enslaved people’s uprisings in the antebellum South, to the elements of Hip Hop and African cultural retentions.”
Teachers are encouraged to cite the biographies of “potentially sig nificant figures” such as Angela Da-* vis, Frantz Fanon and Bobby Seale. • Convicted cop-killers Mumia Abu-Jamal and Assata Shakur are also on the list. Students are taught that the life of George Jackson matters “now more than ever.” Jackson, while in prison, became "a revolutionary
warrior for Black liberation and prison reform.” The Latino section’s people of significance include Puerto Rican nationalists Oscar Lopez Rivera, a member of a paramilitary group that carried out more than 130 bomb attacks, and Lolita Lebrdn. who was convicted of attempted murder in a group assault that wounded five congressmen.
A new model curriculum for ‘ethnic studies’ is a handbook for classroom propagandizing.
•-■ «V^4W«*	*****	I»W»*.^*»*»-W
Housing policy gets the treatment. The curriculum describes subprime loans as an attack on home buyers with low incomes rather than a misguided attempt by the government to help such home buyers. Politicians— Republicans and Democrats—imposed lower underwriting standards on the home-loan industry. Republi-| cans billed it as a way to expand the | middle class, while Democrats crowed that it would aid the poor.
In a sample lesson on Native * Americans, the curriculum suggests
students offer their responses to a fictional environmentalist speech by Chief Seattle as well as an anodyne quote about relationships from the recently deceased rapper Nipsey Hussle. The Chief Seattle error is • part of a larger problem. The curric -
ulum perpetuates the myth that the Indians had the same values as pres ent-day ecologists. In truth, Native j Americans had a mixed approach to • nature. The curriculum writers
should have looked carefully at the scholarly evidence presented in Shepard Krech’s 1999 book, “The Ecological Indian”—about, for example, the setting of brush fires that got out of control and the needless killing of buffalo, beaver and deer.
The curriculum lauds bilingual education, but it omits that this program in which teachers conducted class mostly in Spanish until seventh grade failed in California and was disliked by much of the Latino community.
> The curriculum is entirely wrong-7 headed when it comes to critical * thinking. Critical thinking is de-
scribed not as reasoning through logic and consideration of evidence . but rather a vague deconstruction of
power relationships so that one can • “speak out on social issues.” Think-
ing critically "requires individuals to evaluate phenomenon [sic] through the lens of systems, the rules within those systems, who wields power within systems and the impact of that power on the re lationships between people existing within systems.”
I Such a curriculum presents a seti oils problem of fairness to students, hi a course titled "Math and .Social Justice," will you Im* graded on hav ing correct answers on the math or politically correct answers on social justice?
This curriculum explicitly aims at encouraging students to become t “agents of change, social justice organizers and advocates.” In the sample unit teachers are directed to have students plan “a direct action (e.g., a sit-in, die-in, march, boycott, strike).” Teaching objective history clearly isn’t the goal. Rather, it’s 1 training students to become ideological activists and proponents of identity politics.
Mr. Evers is a research fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. He served as assistant secretary of education for planning, evaluation, and policy development during the George W. Bush administration.