Public Input Template-2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations)
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this template or the public input process.
Chapter of Model Curriculum	Your Name and Affiliation	Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)
Glossary/Bibliography	David Shaywitz, parent of Bay Area children attending public schools	BDS is a profoundly anti-Jewish organization that bills itself as anti-zionist; it promotes hate, intolerance, and division, and inhibits rather than promotes free speech, especially pro-lsrael speech, on campuses. For the State of California to lionize and promote such an organization to our children seem absurd.
Ch 2	(same)	P. 234 - BDS citation; p. 242 - incredibly lopsided version of founding of Israel and subsequent event; p. 256 and subsequent translation of “somos sur” - the entire presentation feels like out-and-out propaganda, representing a divisive and extremist perspective, inclusion of which apparently aims to indoctrinate our children - I can’t believe the way this aspect of the curriculum has been devised, offering our children such a warped and emotionally manipulative view of history.
More generally	(same)	The curriculum would do well to highlight Jews as an important ethnic group in America and around the world, who have struggled against oppression globally, and remain under constant toxic attack globally, especially in almost all countries the Middle East (as well as increasingly on California campuses, thanks in part to the hateful activities of BDS.) It would be important to understand the history of the Holocaust and the exceptional and exceptionally positive impact of Jewish emigres on their new countries, including especially the United States.