From: On Behalf Of Nancy Cavillones Sent: Thursday, November 12, 2020 11:03 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov>; [emails redacted] Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove Political Agenda from CA Ethnic Studies
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission, State Board of Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, State Superintendent Tony Thurmond, and Governor Gavin Newsom,
I write to you with deep concern about the current draft of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) and to express my support for the detailed revision requests recently sent to you by the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies.
I join in urging you to remove the political agenda from the "Guiding Values and Principles" and resulting lessons by:
1. Removing the inflammatory "Guiding Values," which promote radical ideological aims such as "transformative post-imperial resistance," and can be used to justify bringing hate and political dogma into the classroom.
2. Aligning all lessons only to the impartial Outcomes, and identify those Outcomes as "Guiding Principles and Outcomes."
3. Adding the Los Angeles Unified School District's Elements of a Balanced Curriculum as guidelines against politicizing Ethnic Studies classes.
4. Excluding the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement and other one-sided political conversations about Middle Eastern conflicts, which do not belong in California Ethnic Studies and create unsafe classrooms for students. This is a particular concern for me, as we are Jewish and my children run the risk of being subject to anti-semitism in school and elsewhere.
5. Incorporating approaches to social change from a wide range of political orientations, including methods that work within the US system to improve it.
Thank you for your attention to these crucial problems in the ESMC. As goes California, so goes

the nation. Please consider the long-lasting repercussions of not taking appropriate action. Sincerely, Nancy Cavillones Los Gatoz

