Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies covers the interconnected histories, cultures, and relationships among people of different races, ethnicities, and faiths. While other sections within Ethnic Studies often focus on a single group of people, Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies seeks to take a more intersectional approach to understanding the complexities of race and racism in the United States of America and beyond. This course challenges students to think, discuss, and critically analyze the intersection of race, ethnicity, culture, gender, socioeconomic status, and sexuality, just to name a few.
This course can explore the concept of intersectionality for people of color. Often courses and lesson will focus on the concept racism without considering the multitudes of identities and struggles held by a person or community of color. These communities are not only experiencing systemic racism, but also economic disenfranchisement, lack of opportunities, or even physical space to call their own. This course can provide students the underlying context of how and why communities of color create alliances and coalitions to organize against oppression in any form. Students are exposed to not only the causes of intersectional oppression, but also what it means to resist systemic racism. Ultimately, this course considers the wider impact of race and racism on all oppressed communities.
This course can explore a wide swath of topics that have affected oppressed communities including but not limited to the Third World Liberation Front, 1992 LA Civil Unrest/Uprising, anti-Semitism, the unique experiences of people from the Caucasus and West Asia regions, intersectionality, anti-Muslim hate crimes, multi-ethnic alliances and coalitions, and the political uncertainty/limbo of people in U.S. territories.
Resources:
https://ccsre.stanford.edu/academics/undergraduate-program
https://ethnicstudies.berkeley.edu/areas-of-study/area/ethnic-studies/

https://www.asamst.ucsb.edu/research/ethnic-studies

