From: M. Harmachis Sent: Wednesday, November 11, 2020 1:11 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov>; Superintendent <Superintendent@cde.ca.gov>; lindadh@suse.stanford.edu; info@araborganizing.org Subject: [EXTERNAL] CA ES model curriculum
Greetings,
To say we are disappointed in the deviation the current model curriculum takes is an understatement. We were excited when we saw the original model curriculum last year. It stuck to the traditions of the academic area but laid groundwork for future expansion. Now, the state is taking us, not only backwards, but in a direction that ethnic studies was never meant to go.
Adding Jewish people to the model curriculum makes no sense. They were never in the original areas of study and as a group did precious little to help bring ES to our university and college campuses. And now they believe they have some say in the matter? Perhaps if it was Jews making complaints I would listen, but these are zionists who are hiding behind a beautiful religion. They are charlatans at best and, in reality, outlandish racists.
Why is it I can teach about the positives and negatives of the policies of any nation on earth 'til I mention Israel? Suddenly if I disagree with any Israeli policy I am called antisemitic. That makes no logical sense. While I have no problem with adding the term antisemitic to the model curriculum I am in deep opposition to having Jewish studies added to the model curriculum, especially in light of the dropping of any part of Asian American studies, of which West Asians, or "Arabs," are a definite part.
Please stand up for positive and correct ES education for our youth. Do not allow this perversion of the model curriculum to be foisted upon our youth. Our young people need to know what is actually happening in the world in their social science classes. Allowing special interests that aren't even part of ES to determine what ES should or shouldn't be is a mistake.
Thank you for your attention,
Matef Harmachis, JD, MEd

