From: Yasmine Tani Sent: Thursday, November 12, 2020 7:51 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] [email redacted]
Good evening,
I am emailing you with great pain and furiosity. When the update about the changes to the Arab American Studies curriculum, or if we are to be honest the eradication of its genre, was brought up to me, I was in absolute shock. The puzzle pieces were finally put together and I realized, despite great hope otherwise, that the California education system is enslaved by Capitalist sentiment and lacks resilience to outside criticism.
The fact that we even have to bring to your attention the irony of introducing a curriculum that highlights underrepresented groups while proceeding to further marginalize Arab Americans is quite frankly.. embarrassing. To say that I have been indoctrinated by such a system greatly concerns me and makes me wonder about similar issues I am naive to and have been misinformed about.
However, just as I thought it was bad enough, nothing could have prepared me for the news that would come next.
All mention of Palestine was removed and the definition of antisemitism is linked to the criticism of the state of Israel.
My heart beats faster as I write this, for I am overwhelmed with outrage. Before my eyes, I am witnessing the literal brainwashing of future generations as their understanding of history is changed and they are misinformed on an entire segment of the human population. Families. Cities and Culture. An entire state. Religion. The audacity to not only conform to zionist sentiment and attempt to `rewrite' history in the name of avoiding antisemitism over an issue that has absolutely nothing to do with religion and everything to do with apartheid but to also proceed to essentially remove the entire Arab American Studies curriculum is appalling.
If the Instructional Quality Commission sits comfortably with these decisions, the system is too broken to be fixed.
Do better.
A San Diego Arab American Student,
Yasmine Tani

