November 18, 2020
Instructional Quality Commission c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks & Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814 Email: iqc@cde.ca.gov
I am writing to ask that the board of Instructional Quality Commission make necessary revisions to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to include the "Antisemitism and Middle Eastern Jewish Americans" lesson in the Model Curriculum.
California's State Board of Education's rules require the state's curricula to portray people proportionately and not discriminate in favor of or against nationalities, races, ethnicities, and religions. Therefore, Middle Eastern Jewish Americans and Arab Americans should be treated equally and placed in the curriculum's Asian American Section.
I strongly support adding the "Antisemitism and Middle Eastern-American Jews" lesson because it addresses antisemitism, which continues to be the 3rd most prevalent ethnic-based and the most prevalent religious-based hate crime in California, according to government statistics, up a disturbing 72% since 2016.
Ethnic Studies includes the study of "forms of bigotry including antisemitism" according to the Preface of the model curriculum draft you approved in August. Included in this lesson is an accurate definition of antisemitism, the one most widely used around the world by Jewish rights organizations and both the US Democratic (Obama administration) and Republican administrations' State Departments.

Instructional Quality Commission November 18, 2020 Page Two
I am deeply concerned that without adequate safeguards, the discussions in these classrooms could morph into one-sided political advocacy and activism that will both subvert the academic mission of the university, and incite bigotry and harm against students.
Please include Middle Eastern American lessons in full so they won't be overlooked. Simply sharing them via a link to a webpage is not enough. Superintendent Thurmond shared his hopes for this curriculum in his November 6 press conference: "as we talk about the rise of white supremacy, we must talk about the increase in hate acts and bigotry against the Jewish community, the high level of anti-Semitism that we see." I hope you will agree how important this inclusion is.
Thank you for your attention to this very important matter.
Sincerely,
PAUL KORETZ Councilmember, 5th District

