From: Ruth Parker Sent: Thursday, November 12, 2020 2:33 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Mizrahi Heritage Month Upcoming Events
Add "Uprooted:How 3000 Years of Jewish Civilization in the Arab World Vanished Overnight" copyright 2018 by Lyn Julius to the contents of this email and you have a curriculum for a class in Jews are indigenous to the land of Israel.
----- Forwarded Message ----From: JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa [email redacted] To: [email redacted] Sent: Thursday, November 12, 2020, 11:31:01 AM PST Subject: Mizrahi Heritage Month Upcoming Events

Join JIMENA for a special November 30th, Mizrahi commemoration day event. The event will feature an engaging panel discussion with Iranian-born social activist, academic, and philanthropist, Dr. Sharon Nazarian; former federal judge and scholar, Abraham D. Sofaer; and Editor-in-Chief of Tribe Media/Jewish Journal, David Suissa. Participants are invited to enjoy a special LIVE musical performance from the internationally acclaimed artist, Tair
Haim from A-WA and a robust Q&A session.
RSVP Here

Uncompromising: Yarden Gerbi
November 17th, 2020 5pm ET | 8pm PT Don't miss this very special lecture by 2013 Israeli gold-winning Judo world-champion, 2016 bronze medalist, Libyan-Israeli entrepreneur, Yarden Gerbi!

This event was is hosted by IAC Mishelanu and made possible by the Israel on Campus Coalition (ICC), Hillel International, StandWithUs, Students Supporting Israel (SSI), the Jewish Agency for Israel, Hasbara Fellowships, Alpha Epsilon Pi, and JIMENA.
RSVP HERE

Mizrahi Stories: Voices From Syria, Yemen, Turkey, Iraq, and Dagestan
Monday November 16th, 4:30 PM PT | 7:30 PM ET
Join Hillel at Baruch's Yael Brenner, IAC Mishelanu's Hait Gilad, StandWithUs' Rena Nasar First, and David Leviev from CAMERA ON CAMPUS via Zoom for a discussion about their rich Mizrahi cultural and heritage.
RSVP HERE

My Mizrahi Story: A Panel of Mizrahi Voices
November 18th, 2020 8pm ET | 5pm PT As part of Mizrahi Heritage Month in November, join Hillel International and JIMENA for an informative and timely panel on what it means to celebrate Mizrahi identity within the Jewish Community.
We will be discussing important aspects of Mizrahi history, culture, and identity that help us elevate these important voices within the Jewish community.
RSVP HERE

Spilling The Tea
Spilling the Tea is an experiential program designed to spotlight the history, stories, and experiences of Sephardic and Mizrahi Jews. During the program students will host 30 minute Instagram live videos where they will have the opportunity to interview JIMENA members of Sephardic or Mizrahi descent while enjoying special Middle Eastern tea. Join us LIVE on Instagram on Thursday November 26th, with Justin Feldman member of JIMENA's Young Professionals Board and Community Engagement Manager for the IAC college program, Mishelanu. Justin will share his family story from Morocco and Israel as well as explain how he uses social media to employ his Mizrahi voice.
Mizrahi Remembrance Month Shabbat Dinner Supplement

In honor of Mizrahi Remembrance Month, JIMENA invites organizations and individuals to host Middle Eastern and North African inspired Shabbat dinners for their family, friends, and communities. Utilizing a Mizrahi Remembrance Shabbat supplement, hosts will have help planning, framing, cooking, and leading a special Mizrahi Shabbat dinner. Please download the supplement and feel free to contact us with questions.
Click here to host a Mizrahi Shabbat Dinner with OneTable.

Join San Francisco Moishe House Mizrahi Shabbat Dinner
Friday November 13th, 7pm PT
Moishe House Silicon Valley and Moishe House Nob Hill - San Francisco have partnered with JIMENA to celebrate Mizrahi heritage with this young adult Shabbat.

Hear stories of the past, learn about Mizrahi heritage, and take part in celebrating Mizrahim worldwide. Click here to join the FB event.
Share #MizrahiStories on Social Media
Join Camera on Campus and Mizrahi Jews around the world by sharing your Mizrahi stories, photos, art, and experiences on social media with the hashtag, #MizrahiStories. This year we are committed to amplifying young Mizrahi voices and we hope to share share your
content with JIMENA's followers around the world.

Stay Connected!
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter for more JIMENA culture, news, and updates!
Use the hashtag #jimenavoice to share photos, news, and ideas to our online communities

JIMENA's mission is to achieve universal recognition of the heritage and history of the one million indigenous Jewish refugees from the Middle East and North Africa and their descendants. Our programs aim to ensure that the accurate
history of Mizrahi and Sephardic Jews is incorporated into mainstream Jewish and Middle Eastern narratives in order to create balance in attitudes, narratives,

discourse, and negotiations about Middle Eastern refugees and the modern Jewish experience.
Try email marketing for free today!

