From: Jess Fugate Sent: Friday, November 13, 2020 9:24 AM To: Superintendent Cc: Stephanie Gregson; Shanine Coats; IQC; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum: Comments
Good morning, Superintendent Thurmond, et al.
My name is Jessica Fugate and I am writing to you as both a public servant and as Secretary of Democrats for Israel--Los Angeles.I am also a resident of North Hollywood and a reform-Jewish woman. I want to emphasize the inclusion of all Jewish Americans. While I am of Russian origin and therefore white, I know many Jewish Angelenos of Iranian/Persian descent including my aunt. I appreciate your continued efforts of inclusion and thank you for your time.
DFI-LA supports the California Department of Education (CDE) recommendations to revise and clarify the state's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). The current recommendations are much improved with the previous version of ESMC and align with our efforts to better inform the CDE, and the California Educational Community, about antisemitism and the diversity of the Jewish community.
We urge the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) to adopt the proposed changes introduced last week with the focus on the four core groups, while also including the proposed appendices.
1. Support the California Department of Education (CDE) recommendations and urge the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) to adopt the proposed changes introduced last week.
2. Support the inclusion of Sikh-Americans, Armenian-Americans, and other minority communities. We encourage the CDE to meaningfully include and distribute the appendix as an integral part of the model curriculum.

3. Continue to support the inclusion of the full IHRA definition of antisemitism and continued conversation with mainstream Jewish communal institutions. Mainstream Jewish organizations should be in charge of defining antisemitism. The IHRA definition has been widely adopted by the international Jewish community for its comprehensiveness.
4. Reject pressure from fringe anti-Israel groups who are attempting to undo progress regarding these recommendations.
DFI-LA would like to thank you all for your hard work and commitment to making this model curriculum reflective of the many communities who live in California. This draft is finally on its way to fulfilling the core call of inclusion and education of AB 201.
Sincerely,
Jessica Fugate Secretary DFI- Los Angeles

