From: Lamba Najib Sent: Wednesday, November 18, 2020 3:46 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] IQC MEETING - PUBLIC COMMENT
Hi, my name is Lamba Najib. I am a Community Organizer and a SWANA woman from Orange County. I cannot stand idly by while my Palestinian brothers and sisters are being actively erased by the current Ethnic Studies curriculum. We are taking 10 steps back. The proposed definition of antisemitism will have a chilling impact on Palestinian, other Arab and Muslim children, and on teachers across the state. Ethnic studies scholars agree that it's impossible to understand Arab American issues without understanding Palestine. If teachers can't talk about Palestine in their classrooms, where does that leave Palestinian children? Are we telling them that their identity is a problem?
I'm also a UCLA alumna. I was part of a diverse coalition of students, this included Jewish, Afrikkan, API, Armenian, Palestinian Christian and Muslim students who stood behind the BDS movement. I witnessed harassment by pro-Zionists against pro-Palestinian activists who were placed on dangerous websites like CanaryMission for expressing their freedom of speech. My pro-Palestinian Jewish friends were labeled as self-hating Jews. This is a dangerous rhetoric as Jewish people are not a monolithic people, in fact, it is downright hateful to accuse a Jewish individual that their critique of Israeli government is antisemitic as it erases the diversity of the Jewish people.
Criticism of Israel and Zionism is not antisemitic. This threatens our first amendment right to peaceful protests and freedom of speech by using the Boycott, Divest, and Sanction (BDS) movement as a response to Israel's human rights violations against the Palestinian people. This definition dangerously downplays the main source of antisemitism in the US--which is white supremacy.
Re-insert Arab Studies within Asian American Studies. Include the Arab American lesson plan submitted to the California Department of Education by members of the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) advisory committee. Thank you.IQC
Warmly, Lamba Najib Community Organizer, Policy & Advocacy Council on American-Islamic Relations, California Greater Los Angeles Area Office

