From: Sarah Levin Sent: Thursday, November 12, 2020 1:25 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov>; [emails redacted] Cc: [emails redadcted] Subject: NOVEMBER 12th UPDATE FROM JIMENA TO THE IQC
November 12, 2020 Important Update from JIMENA
To members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
In September, 10,000 members of the public asked the IQC to include JIMENA's lesson in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC).
The CDE recommended JIMENA's lesson be added to Appendix B of the ESMC, in the same place as other lessons on Middle Easterners:
(i) in the Asian American Studies section (starting at line 1322, see November IQC Agenda packet Attachment D #2 and #25 (both specify "AAPI Studies")), or
(ii) with CDE's new content (following line 2857, see November IQC Agenda packet Attachment C #426 and #447 and Attachment E). JIMENA's lesson: https://cde.app.box.com/s/913end8re8q6v7255e2oxjwlhmdypx5i/file/738767094016 (as edited by the CDE).
Below is the letter JIMENA submitted to the IQC during the September field review for context.
September 30th, 2020
To Governor Gavin Newsom, Superintendent Tony Thurmond, State Board of Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, Deputy Superintendent Stephanie Gregson, Instructional Quality Commission Chair Jose Iniguez, and Instructional Quality Commission Executive Director Shanine Coats:
This month over 5,800 members of the public asked the Instructional Quality Commission to include Middle Eastern Jewish Americans, also known as Mizrahi and Sephardic Jews, in the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC).
Attached is JIMENA's* comprehensive lesson plan "Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern Americans"** we ask be included in the ESMC Appendix B, Asian American and Pacific Islander section. It was written by a professional, independent regional scholar and curriculum expert.
The ESMC defines Ethnic Studies as the "study of race, ethnicity, and indigeneity, with an emphasis on the experiences of people of color in the United States [who have] common experiences of racism [including] examples of how collective social action can change society in positive ways." (Chapter 1, page 4). Asian Americans*** includes "the unique experiences of Arabs and other Middle Easterners" (Chapter 3, pages 20) and "forms of bigotry including anti-Semitism." (Preface, page 4).

California has a total population of at least 200,000 Mizrahi Jews who are an indigenous Middle Eastern community that has experienced racialization, antisemitism, and marginalization here in the United States. Many individuals within our communities have intersectional identities as a result of experiencing prejudice and discrimination as Jewish Americans, as Middle Eastern refugees and immigrants, and as people of color in Calfiornia. (The Iranian Jewish community in Los Angeles is one of the largest Middle Eastern diasporic communities in North America.)
It is imperative that students learn about us and antisemitism which is why antisemitism is the focus of our lesson. One of the oldest and most deadly forms of hate, antisemitism remains the third most prevalent ethnic-based and the most prevalent religious-based hate crime in the US and California (68% of California's total for 2% of its population), up 72% since 2016.
Moreover, "antisemitism has become integral to the architecture of American racism.... which means the other channels of its hatred cannot be intercepted without directly taking on antisemitism" according to Eric Ward, a prominent leader of color whose life work is studying, exposing, and countering organized hate groups. Antisemitism is the "fuel that White nationalist ideology uses to power its anti-Black racism, its contempt for other people of color, and its xenophobia--as well as the misogyny and other forms of hatred it holds dear," Ward has concluded.****
It is JIMENA's hope that our lesson on Jewish Middle Eastern Americans as well as content on other Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) groups which represent 60% of California's Middle Eastern community will be included in the ESMC, satisfying legislators' aim when enacting AB 2016 -- "preparing pupils to be global citizens with an appreciation for the contributions of multiple cultures." The ESMC must comply with the State Board of Education's (SBE) requirements that content portray peoples proportionately (SBE Social Content Standards, 2013) and it be balanced (SBE ESMC Guidelines, 2017). California's Education Code prohibits discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, ethnicity, and religion.
Thank you,
Sarah Levin, Executive Director
Gina Bublil-Waldman, President
* "Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa"
** This is an updated, shorter version of the two lesson plans we submitted July 14, 2020, formatted as the California Department of Education requested.
*** San Francisco State Asian Studies Professor Allyson Tintiangco-Cubales advised CDE that it "need[s] to consider Asian American Studies as a growing field...addressing unique voices, history, humanities and issues of broad racialized groups." (CDE's October 15, 2019 Ethnic Studies expert panel presentation).
**** "Skin in the Game, How Antisemitism Animates White Nationalism," Eric Ward (June 29, 2017) https://www.politicalresearch.org/2017/06/29/skin-in-the-game-how-antisemitism-animates-whitenationalism

Thank you, Sarah --
Sarah Levin Executive Director JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa
www.jimena.org Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Donate
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The contents of this email message and any attachments are intended solely for the addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or privileged information and may be legally protected from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient of this message or their agent, or if this message has been addressed to you in error, please immediately alert the sender by reply email and then delete this message and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any use, dissemination, copying, or storage of this message or its attachments is strictly prohibited.

