From: Marcy Winograd Sent: Thursday, November 19, 2020 8:55 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] CDE, Comment on Ethnic Studies--Remove ADL Lesson Plans/Definition that Distort Definition of Anti-Semitism
Dear CDE:
I am a retired LAUSD English and government teacher and retired UTLA member urging you to delete from the model ethnic studies curriculum any and all ADL lesson plans that conflate anti-semitism with criticism of Israel. To my knowledge, the appendix may include a definition and the preface may include a lesson plan "Anti-Semitism and Jewish Middle Eastern Americans" defining anti-semitism as criticism of Israel.
Excerpt from lesson plan Modern Definitions of Antisemitism Anti-Semitism is based on stereotypes and myths that target Jews as a people, their religious practices and beliefs, and the Jewish State of Israel. https://www.adl.org/sites/default/files/documents/assets/pdf/education-outreach/BriefHistory-on-Anti-Semitism-A.pdf
I am a non-Zionist Jew with family members who experienced the horrors of real anti-semitism. Some fled Russian pogroms, other died in Nazi concentration camps. Anti-Semitism is the persecution and stereotyping of Jews; Criticism of Israel is a critique of a nationstate and its foundational ideology. The two, anti-semitism and criticism of Israel or Zionism, should not be confused; to conflate them would be the height of educational malpractice.
To be clear, as a Jewish woman of conscience, I do not subscribe to ethnic supremacy in any form and am deeply critical of apartheid practices, home demolitions and racist laws perpetrated by Israel against the Palestinians.
It has also come to my attention that the word "Palestine" has been removed from the curriculum. Why? Is the State of California to be complicit in the erasure of Palestine, the birthplace of Judaism and Christianity, and Palestinians, their culture and history? This is wrong.
I am sorry you have chosen not to include a section on Arab Americans in the Ethnic Studies curriculum and hope you will reconsider that decision.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Marcy Winograd Retired LAUSD Public High School Teacher

