FREDT.
KOREMATSU
INSTITUTE
State Board of Education
c/o California Department of Education
Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division
1430 N Street, Suite 3207
Sacramento, CA 95814
January 21, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
The mission of the Fred T. Korematsu Institute is educating to advance racial equity, social justice, and human rights for all.
Through K-12 and public education, we promote the significance and relevance of one of the most blatant forms of racism and civil rights violations in U.S. history: the forced removal and mass incarceration of Japanese Americans during WWII.
The Fred T. Korematsu Institute supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1.	The “Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth” Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
2.	Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame “Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth” as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3.	In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4.	Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
The Korematsu Institute is a national organization that inspires students and the public through Fred Korematsu’s story. Our overarching vision is to uphold all human and civil rights by inspiring people to "stand up for what is right." Included in this vision are several goals. One is to establish federal recognition of January 30 as a national holiday honoring Fred Korematsu and his fight for justice by emphasizing the importance of upholding our “Civil Liberties and the Constitution.” We are working to promote awareness of Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution to schools, the general public, and state and federal legislators. Second, by collaborating with education partners, we are working to create a national resource center for Asian Pacific American history and civic education, where educators can acquire materials and guidance in developing effective curriculum. We are continuing to broaden and include civic education and civil rights history of other racial and ethnic groups, including American Indians, African Americans, Latinos, and others that
Presidio of San Francisco • P.O. Box 29527 • San Francisco, CA 94129 • www.korematsuinstitute.org ♦ 415-775-1277 FRED T. KOREMATSU INSTITUTE IS A 501 (c) (3) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION, TAX ID# 81-3400947
FREDT.
KOREMATSU
INSTITUTE
reflects our goal of helping to establish Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum as requirement for all state K-12 and higher education that reflects diversity and inclusion.
“Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies” is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. The Fred T. Korematsu Institute joins local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Thank you. Sincerely,
Karen Korematsu, L.H.D., Founder & Executive Director Fred T. Korematsu Institute Presidio of San Francisco
1009 General Kennedy Avenue, FL 2 P.O. Box 29527-Presidio
San Francisco, CA 94129
Karen@korematsuinstitute.org
Presidio of San Francisco ♦ P.O. Box 29527 ♦ San Francisco, CA 94129 • www.korematsuinstitute.org » 415-775-1277 FRED T. KOREMATSU INSTITUTE IS A 501 (c) (3) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION, TAX ID# 81-3400947