Public Input Template-2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
May 2019 Draft
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations)
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.qov with any questions regarding this template or the public input process.
Chapter of Model Curriculum	Your Name and Affiliation	Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)
[Enter the Chapter Number here, or just “Generar for a comment that applies to the entire document.]	[Enter Your Name] [Enter the agency, organization, or business that you represent, if applicable.]	[Include the page and line number(s) here-Write your comment here]
General Glossary and page 234	Howard Dworkin	As a Jew with grandchildren now being enrolled in California Public Schools 1 am alarmed that my grandkids would be exposed to what appears to be a definite anti Israel bias in our public school system. 1 see the BDS movement portrayed as a freedom movement for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions. (Glossary and page 234). In fact the purpose of the BDS Movement is to delegitimize Israel and eventually end it’s existence. Where is the balance. Where is the criticism of BDS.
Page 234	Howard Dworkin	How do you equate Israeli efforts to stop terrorists from entering Israel, for the purpose of murdering innocent Israeli’s, with the policies of our federal government at our southern border.
Public Input Template-2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Page 2 of 2
Chapter of Model Curriculum	Your Name and Affiliation	Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)
Page 237	Howard Dworkin	Your reference to “Israel-Palestine is at the least extremely confusing. Israel is a legal State created by the UN and recognized as such throughout the world. There is no entity recognized as Israel-Palestine.
		
		Thank you for reading my comments
California Department of Education, June 2019