SENATORS
ASSEMBLY MEMBERS

ASSOCIATE MEMBERS
July 29. 2019
Ms. Soomin Chao
Chair, Instructional Quality Commission
California Department of Education i 430 N Street
Sacramento. CA 95814-5901
To Chairwoman Chao and Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
We write as Members of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus to share our deep concerns with the current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). The ESMC is inaccurate and misleading in several critical respects and is drafted in a manner that reflects an anti-Jewish bias. For this reason, we are strongly opposed to the ESMC moving forward without significant revisions.
As elected representatives and members of California’s diverse Jewish community, we have consistently prioritized efforts to promote inclusion and have strongly supported efforts to ensure that California students understand our state's complicated history and rich diversity. However, we cannot support a curriculum that erases the .American Jewish experience, fails to discuss antisemitism, reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, singles out Israel for criticism, and would institutionalize the teaching of antisemitic stereotypes in our public schools. We respectfully request that the IQC address the matters outlined below.
The Draft Curriculum Effectively Erases the American Jewish Experience
Despite the signi ficant contributions of Jews to California's history, politics, culture, and government—and our community's longstanding struggle against hatred and discrimination—the ESMC effectively erases the American Jewish experience. Indeed, notwithstanding widespread agreement that Judaism is a form of identity that is broader than religion. and the inclusion of religion in sample courses for African American, Native American, Latin American, and Arab American Studies. Jews are essentially excluded from the ESMC. We have been advised that
i'-M- Carolyn Chen. Sustaining f-anh I raattiony Rys. Lihnicitv and Religion among the Latino and Aston American Second (lenerattim (New York: NYU 2012.) al 17: "UC Berkeley Department of Ethnic Studies Mission.” hupOAihnicsludies.berkeley.ediidibour mission. Iasi accessed July 25. 2019.
’ California Stale Department oi Education. Draft 2!>2<i Edina: Studies Model Curriculum Chapter 2: Sample
( 'nurse Mic/c/m ni 48, 200. 233-4, 230 (2019) Ihdrfuiiilfo" /OSO/( ’ ( ’hu/uur 2] ucubaiUe al
blips: AWH.LoO.CtLgic ci cr v! esmcpubiicujmmcni asD.
this exclusion appeared to be intentional and reflected the political bias of the drafters of the ESMC. This purposeful exclusion is deeply insulting, fundamentally inconsistent with the purposes of ethnic studies, harmful to Jewish and non-Jewish students, and indicative of an anti-Jewish bias in the ESMC that would he dangerous to institutionalize in our curriculum.
The Draft Curriculum Omits Antisemitism
While the ESMC specifics the importance of studying hate crimes, white supremacy, bias, prejudice, and discrimination, and specifically discusses bias against other communities, it omits any meaningful discussion of antisemitism/ This glaring omission is deeply troubling, especially against the backdrop of a recent surge in violent antisemitic incidents, which has included the shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh--the deadliest attack on Jews in U.S. history—and the tragic shooting at the C’habad in Poway earlier this year. Moreover, while the Jewish Caucus applauds the inclusion of "Islamophobia” and other forms of discrimination in the ESMC Glossary, it is difficult to understand how a similar definition of antisemitism was not included, especially giver, that a majority of religiously-based hate crimes in the United States in 2017 were motivated by anti-Jewish bias.4 In sum, we find it alarming to say the least that at a time when Nazis are marching openly in Charlottesville chanting ’‘Jews will not replace us." and Jews in our own state are being physically attacked in houses of worship, the ESMC would intentionally turn a blind eye to hatred and discrimination against our community.''
The Draft Curriculum Denigrates Jews
In the few instances where the ESMC actually acknowledges Jews, it does so in a denigrating and discriminatory manner. For example, the ESMC recommends song lyrics that inappropriately delve into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict with strong bias and little nuance, and asserts that Israelis "use the press so they can manufacture." a classic antisemitic trope about Jewish control of the media.6 It is difficult to fathom why—especially al a time of rising antisemitism and real fear in the Jew ish community- - the Stale of California would want to actively promote a narrative about Jew s that echoes the propaganda of the Nazi Regime.
The Draft Curriculum Singles Out Israel for Condemnation
The anti-Jewish bias of the ESMC is further reflected in its not-so-subtle promotion of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which is widely perceived by many in the Jewish community and beyond as an effort to promote discrimination against Jews. Israelis, and/or Israeli-Americans. Notably, in stark contrast to brief and dispassionate references to other global conflicts ESMC singles out Israel the world's only Jewish state—for special
Other formrof oppression and discrimination in the ESMC Glossary include Racism. Sexism, Anthropocentrism. Cishererepatriarchy. Heieropatriarehy. Classism. Colonialism, Homophobia. Imperialism, Islamophobia, Patriarchy, Transphobia, White Supremacy, and Xenophobia. California State [Department of Education, Drat! 2020 Ethnic Studies Mode! Curriculum Chapter -I: Glos.wv and EtbEcpraphr at 1-3. 8-10, 12-13, 15-16.
’ Nearly 60 percent of hate crimes moth ated by religious bias in 2017 were anti-JeMsh. U.S. Dep't of Justice. 201 ~ Hate Crimes Statistics, Incidents and O/Cascs. ovadaMe at hups: ucr.fbi.gov hate-crime 20 17/iopic-pages'incidents-and-offenses
' rhe failure to meaningfully acknowledge antisemitism despite statistics and recent events is further evidence that the ESMC was drafted with an anti-Jewish bias.
J ESMC Chapter 2 at 270.
' See. e.g. ESMC Chapter 2 al 105 (referencing the civil war in El Salvador), and id. at 41 (the Vietnam War).
