From: Navdeep S. Nijher 
Sent: Tue 3/24, 9:57 AM 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Navdeep S. Nijher, MD and I have been a resident of California since 2007. I 
have 3 young children born and raised in California. I live in Sacramento. 2 of my children 
are in elementary school (Grade 4, 2) at Merryhill Midtown School in Sacramento. My 
youngest is in preschool at McKinley Montessori School in Sacramento.  

I am a proud American who was born and raised in New York and moved to California over 
10 years ago. In these challenging times, it is very important for our next generation to be 
educated about other cultures and religions. This reduces bullying and allows all to flourish.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of 
California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a meaningful 
way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition found 
that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to reiterate that 
the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model curriculum in a 
meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in reducing bullying and 
harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted 

into the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

that focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years 
in California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful 
backlash against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Navdeep S. Nijher, MD 
Sacramento, CA 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
