From: Mary Hendra  
Sent: Friday, March 27, 2020 12:05 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Shanine Coats 
Subject: Public Comment from Facing History and Ourselves on Ethnic Studies Curriculum revision 

March 26, 2020 
On behalf of Facing History and Ourselves, I respectfully submit these comments for 
consideration by the CDE as they seek to refine the Model Ethnic Studies Curriculum. 
Carlos Cortes suggested (and submitted to public comment) 8 principles to guide ethnic studies: 

1.  working toward greater inclusivity 
2.  furthering self-understanding 
3.  developing a better understanding of others 
4.  recognizing intersectionality 
5.  pursuing greater justice and equality 
6.  promoting self-empowerment for civic engagement 
7.  supporting a community focus 
8.  developing interpersonal communication 

We concur with these principles, and would expound on a few of them as 
follows. 
Students need the opportunity to see themselves as part of the American narrative, and they 
need to be exposed to a wide variety of other voices and personal stories for interethnic bridge-
building. Teachers also play a role in  helping students find themselves in the stories of others. 
The learning, then, goes beyond differences and commonalities to provide a foundation for 
empathy. One poignant example of this is the discovery by Julius Lester of haiku as an 
important step in finding his own voice on his way to becoming a renowned author of “To Be a 
Slave” and other narratives that illuminate the experience of enslavement.  
When it comes to promoting self-empowerment for civic engagement, we would add that 
teachers have the opportunity to help students understand agency, identifying the factors that 
expand or constrain the choices available to us. Civic engagement is much larger than the 
"project" or "campaign" model, but is embedded in all of the choices we make in our 
interdependent world. This approach asks students to consider the broadest range of historical 
actors, including the agency and impact of individuals from across marginalized groups. (see 
Keith Barton’s “Agency, Choice, and Historical Action: How history teaching can help students 
think about democratic decision-making”)  
As noted below, creating a reflective classroom culture is a foundation for building students 
capacities as civic actors themselves - practicing the daily decision-making that impacts others 
in their community. Educator Diane Moore has argued that encouraging students to take 
themselves seriously and inspiring in them the confidence to do so are two of the most 
important roles of an educator in a multicultural democracy” (Moore, 2006, p. 11). John Dewey 
has argued that classrooms like these are not training grounds for future democratic action but 
rather places where democracy is already enacted (Dewey, 1916).  (quoted in Barr & Bardige 
2012, p. 672) 
This is also true in application to incorporation of literature in an Ethnic Studies course. Students 
need to experience a diverse range of complex stories to help them understand themselves and 
others. Annual trends analyzed since the 1960s show that over 85% of books published for 
children and young adults feature white characters, and when characters of color or other 

  
marginalized groups, such as LGBTQ+, do appear, they are portrayed as stereotypes or exist at 
the fringes of the story. Scholar and author Ebony Elizabeth Thomas warns that this exclusion is 
creating an “imagination gap” where children are growing up without experiencing what Dr. 
Rudine Sims Bishop described as the “windows, mirrors, and doors” of literature: “Books are 
sometimes windows, offering views of worlds that may be real or imagined, familiar or strange. 
These windows are also sliding glass doors, and readers have only to walk through in 
imagination to become part of whatever world has been created and recreated by the author. 
When lighting conditions are just right, however, a window can also be a mirror. Literature 
transforms human experience and reflects it back to us, and in that reflection we can see our 
own lives and experiences as part of the larger human experience. Reading, then, becomes a 
means of self-affirmation, and readers often seek their mirrors in books.” (Sims 1990, ix-xi) By 
centering the voices that have been traditionally marginalized or excluded from the curriculum 
and applying  a critical lens to texts, teachers provide opportunities to develop students’ critical 
literacy skills, while also allowing them to see themselves in the literature they read and expand 
the range of stories that they have about others in the world.   

We would also suggest adding or clarifying as key principles: 
In regard to principle 3 - developing a better understanding of others - we recommend attention 
be given to trauma-informed educational practices. The primary sources included in a 
community focus could expand beyond local records and verbal materials to include art, 
memorials, and community-based institutions/organizations.   
In regard to principle 8 - developing interpersonal communication - in view of the goal of an 
ethnic studies curriculum presents a different set of skills than is generally a focus in the 
development of persuasive essays or debate arguments.  Within Ethnic Studies, the goal is to 
understand historical experience and contemporary perspectives which have not been as 
consistently presented in K-12 education. Therefore, rather than a debate model with students 
focused on positions and compelling arguments, we respectfully suggest a model of 
engagement which places greater priority on seeking to understand than seeking to convince. 
Through narrative writing, students deepen their own understanding of the material, themselves, 
and the world. Students need to write for the lives they are leading now and the lives they will 
lead in the future, and that preparation involves writing across genres, for a range of purposes 
and audiences, on paper and online. 

We also offer the following as practical pieces for teachers implementing an 
Ethnic Studies approach to their courses. 
Creating a reflective classroom community 
An ethnic studies approach which explores historical analysis, asks students to grow in self-
awareness, and illuminates multiple perspectives, requires creation of a reflective classroom 
community.  To create such an environment, teachers must (1) promote a climate of respect, (2) 
model a culture of questioning, (3) nurture student voice, (4) create space for diverse 
viewpoints, (5) deepen reflection through thoughtful silence, and (6) honor different learning 
styles. 
Educators today have a tremendous responsibility: teaching students content, cultivating their 
social–emotional skills, and preparing them to be informed and active global citizens. 
“In  reflective classrooms, students’ knowledge is constructed rather than passively absorbed. 
Students are prompted to join with teachers in posing problems to foster “critical consciousness” 
(Freire, 1994). In reflective classrooms, teaching and learning are conceived as social 
endeavors in which a healthy exchange of ideas is welcome.  Students are encouraged to 
engage in dialogue within a community of learners, to look deeply, to question underlying 
assumptions, and to discern underlying values being presented. Students are encouraged to 

  
  
voice their own opinions and to actively listen to others, to treat different students and different 
perspectives with patience and respect, and to recognize that there are always more 
perspectives and more to learn.  Learning in these contexts nurtures students’ humility as well 
as confidence - humility because they come to see that they have no “corner” on the truth, and 
confidence because they know their opinion will still be taken seriously.” (Barr & Bardige, 2012, 
p. 672) 
Additional resources for thinking about a reflective classroom: 

•  8 Components of a Reflective Classroom 
•  Fostering a Reflective Classroom 

Foundational strategies for teachers  
Building “safe,” “democratic,” “empowering” classrooms is both art and science. Skilled teachers 
use a variety of techniques to create a sense of trust and openness, to encourage students to 
speak and listen to each other, to make space and time for silent reflection, to offer multiple 
avenues for participation and learning, and to help students appreciate the points of view, 
talents, and contributions of less vocal members. 
Facilitating thoughtful, respectful, and generative discussions of controversial issues can be 
especially challenging in classrooms where students bring a diversity of social, personal, and 
academic backgrounds to the conversation. Yet the richness of these discussions and their 
importance for future citizenship drives many teachers whose classes are relatively 
homogeneous to seek out opportunities for their students to engage with counterparts of very 
different backgrounds. 
It is equally difficult to consistently facilitate honest dialogue in classrooms where there is a 
greater degree of social, personal, and/or political homogeneity. By prioritizing student-centered 
approaches and utilizing a wide variety of discussion protocols, teachers can provide 
opportunities for students to engage critically in the gray areas of controversial topics with peers 
who may share similar viewpoints.  
What do teachers need in order to effectively engage students in productive conversations and 
learning activities around difficult and important issues? Simply put: 

•  Sufficient understanding of the subject matter to provide basic context and select a set of 
authentic and varied readings, coupled with genuine curiosity and an awareness of the 
limitations of their knowledge 

•  Knowledge of their students – coupled with genuine curiosity and a set of tools that help 

them to elicit students’ questions and perspectives, monitor their understanding, 
complicate their thinking and help them tolerate and work through the disequilibrium, and 
appreciate their insights, wisdom, and moral courage 

•  A map of the minefields – and a set of strategies, supports, and mentors that they can 
turn to when students’ confusion, lack of engagement, misconceptions, prejudices, or 
hurtful comments and behavior prove challenging 

•  Awareness and active monitoring of their own thinking and learning – and other adults 

who can join them in the inquiry, help them to articulate their questions and insights, and 
further stimulate their thinking 

These strategies may be helpful for teachers seeking to create reflective classrooms and 
engage student voice: 

▪  Contracting 
▪  Journaling  

  
▪  Text-Text, Text-Self, Text-World 
▪  Big Paper 
▪  Save the Last Word For Me  
▪  Give one get one 
▪  Learn to Listen, Listen to Learn 
▪ 

Introductory Unit: Back to School Toolkit 

And these strategies are particularly helpful for exploring multiple viewpoints on controversial 
topics 

▪  Human Barometer  
▪  Four Corners 
▪  Gallery Walk 
▪  Cafe Conversation 
▪  Fishbowl 

All of these and more can be found in detail  on our website at: 
https://www.facinghistory.org/resource-library/teaching-strategies 

Advice for schools and districts 
To become effective educators, teachers first need time to step back and reflect together with 
colleagues.  Providing professional development seminars and workshops which specifically 
create time for teachers to be learners, allows them to explore core concepts and to deepen 
their understanding of the history they intend to teach while simultaneously exploring their own 
identity, the way their identity has affected and been affected by their experiences, and how 
their identity influences their perspective and the way they are seen by others, including their 
students.  In community with other educators,, teachers gain insight from others’ experiences 
and perspectives, and build relationships for ongoing exploration which may be useful as they 
then create reflective communities for their students.. 
We believe schools and districts can learn from the model Facing History and Ourselves has 
implemented. 
In its teacher preparation efforts, Facing History and Ourselves is explicit both about the need 
for support and effective methods of obtaining it. Administrators and supervisors need to 
understand the program and value its aims and content so that they can adjust schedules and 
respond to parent and community concerns when needed and can foster a school-wide culture 
that builds upon the lessons of Facing History and Ourselves and supports civic learning 
beyond its classrooms. Facing History and Ourselves urges teachers to make their efforts 
visible – to parents, other teachers, administrators, and community members – inviting them to 
sit in on classes and professional discussions, offering curriculum night presentations or 
extended study group opportunities, or linking them with adult education offerings in the 
community. Facing History and Ourselves staff continually follow-up with teachers who have 
attended their institutes, listening to teachers’ observations and concerns, suggesting additional 
resources, arranging for speakers, and sharing the joys of uncovering students’ moral insights 
and growing sense of the importance of their education and of their “choices to participate.” 

And finally, the following framing may be helpful for some of the themes 
being explored in a general Ethnic Studies course. 
Identity and Ideology 

 
 
  
  
“Adolescence is, by definition, a time of transition, when young people begin to take their places 
as responsible and participating members of their communities.  As young people weigh their 
future choices, they wrestle with issues of loyalty and belief. The adolescent’s central 
developmental questions are “Who am I?” “Do I matter?” and “How can I make a 
difference?”  They seek people and paths that are worthy of their loyalty and commitment, 
challenge hypocrisy, and bring passion and new perspectives to enterprises that capture their 
imaginations and engage their involvement. ‘(Barr and Bardige, p. 666) 
Adolescence brings with it new abilities to think abstractly and meta-cognitively, so this 
exploration of identity and ideology is developmentally responsive.  The high-engagement 
reflection on ourselves, who we are, how we are perceived by others, and how our identity 
influences our perspective, choices, and impact,. builds schema for a more sophisticated 
understanding of agency and for deep ethical reflection. It also provides an initial basis for 
delving into the tension between the universal and particular - understanding and drawing out 
universal lessons on human behavior while respecting the integrity of particular moments and 
experiences. 
Essential Questions for exploring Identity: 

1.  What is the relationship between the individual and society? 
2.  What factors shape our identities? What parts of our identities do we choose for 

ourselves? What parts are determined for us by others, by society, or by chance? 

3.  What dilemmas arise when others view us differently than we view ourselves? 
4.  How do our identities influence our choices and the choices available to us? 
5.  What factors influence our identity, and in turn, the choices we make? 
6.  How is identity shaped and reshaped by my circumstances? 

Our society—through its particular culture, customs, institutions, and more—provides us with 
the labels we use to categorize the people we encounter. These labels are based on beliefs 
about race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, economic class, and more. Sometimes 
our beliefs about these categories are so strong that they prevent us from seeing the unique 
identities of others. Sometimes these beliefs also make us feel suspicion, fear, or hatred toward 
some members of our society. Other times, especially when we are able to get to know a 
person, we are able to see past labels and, perhaps, find common ground 

These two chapters offer a range of stories which might be included as resources in this 
exploration: 

Individual and Society  

• 
•  We and They 

And these additional strategies provide an opportunity for students to explore their own identity, 
how they are perceived by others, and the complexity of identity: 

Identity Charts 

• 
•  Bio Poem 
•  Stick Figure Quotes 

Additional possibilities for Essential questions and resources across core themes for Ethnic 
Studies: 
Ideology 

  
  
1.  In what ways does an ideology create “in” groups and “out” groups?  
2.  How does it appeal to people’s hearts and minds? 
3.  In what ways does an ideology get expressed in laws and institutions? 
4.  What does it mean to be an outsider or even a dissenter in an ideologically-based 

society? What does it mean to be an insider? 

The Eugenics movement is one ideology whose legacy continues to impact American 
society.  These resources can be helpful: 

•  Book: Race and Membership in American History: the Eugenics Movement 
•  Model Lesson exploring the legacy of eugenics 

This strategy can be helpful to analyze the deep impact of an ideology: 

• 

Iceberg Diagram 

Migration 

1.  What does it mean to live on this land? Who may become an American? What happens 

when multiple narratives are layered on top of each other?  

2.  How should societies integrate newcomers? How do newcomers develop a sense of 

belonging to the places where they have arrived 

3.  How does migration affect the identities of individuals, communities and nations? 
4.  How do ideas about who may belong in a nation affect immigration policy, the lives of 

immigrants, and host communities? 

5.  What role have immigrants played in defining notions of democracy? 

These resources may be helpful in a study of migration: 

•  Teaching Idea: Why Do People Migrate? 
•  Explainer: Migration 
•  Global Migration Gallery Walk 
•  Stories of Identity: Religion, Migration, and Belonging in a Changing World 
•  Digital book and unit outline: Stolen Lives 
•  Film and Study Guide: Becoming American 
•  Unit: My Part of the Story 
•  Teaching Guide: Teaching Enrique’s Journey 
•  Webinar for teaching Enrique’s Journey 

Systems of Power 

•  Why do people turn to ideologies that promote "We and They" divisions in society? 
•  How do notions of race influence the choices we make? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  How do other constructed aspects of identity influence the choices we make? 
•  What are the implications for a society when it categorizes people into a social 

hierarchy? 

These resources may be helpful: 

•  Book: Race and Membership in American History: the Eugenics Movement 
•  Digital book and unit outline: Stolen Lives 

Social Movements and Equity 

•  What debates and dilemmas from past historical moments remain unresolved?  
•  How can one make a difference in the community? 
•  What skills and tools are needed to create change in society? 

These resources may be helpful: 

•  Lessons: Latinx Rights in 1960s California 
•  Standing Up to Hatred and Intolerance 
•  Chapter: Choosing to Participate 
•  Unit: Facing Ferguson: News Literacy in a Digital Age 
•  Unit: 10 Questions for Young Changemakers 
•  Film and Study Guide: Eyes on the Prize 
•  Unit: Eyes on the Prize 
•  Choosing to Participate Toolkit: From Reflection to Action 

Respectfully submitted by Mary Hendra, Program Director for Los Angeles and 
Organizational Innovation, on behalf of Facing History and Ourselves. 

Facing History and Ourselves offers an interdisciplinary model for middle and high schools that 
integrates civic education, social–emotional learning, academic rigor, and attention to equity, in 
order to fulfill the central goal of American public education: preparing all students for life in a 
democracy. Facing History helps teachers develop reflective, inclusive classrooms designed to 
support social, emotional, and academic development (SEAD). In Facing History classrooms, 
teachers promote a climate of respect; model a culture of questioning; nurture student voice; 
create space for diverse identities, viewpoints, and lived experience; deepen reflection through 
thoughtful silence; and honor different learning styles. This student-centered learning 
environment provides the underlying foundation for implementing Facing History’s content and 
pedagogy. 

References: 

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
Betty Bardige and Dennis Barr, "Case Study: Facing History and Ourselves," in Handbook of 
Prosocial Education, vol. 2., edited by Philip M. Brown, Michael W. Corrigan, and Ann Higgins-
D’Alessandro (Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc., 2012). 

Dewey, J. (1916). Democracy and education.  New York: Free Press.  

Freire, P. (1994). Pedagogy of the oppressed. New York: Continuum Press. 

Moore, D. (2006). Overcoming religious illiteracy: A multicultural approach to the study of 
religion in secondary education.  New York: Palgrave. 

Sims Bishop, R. (1990). “Mirrors, windows, and sliding glass doors.” Perspectives, 1(3), ix–xi. 

Thomas, Ebony Elizabeth. The Dark Fantastic: Race and the Imagination from Harry Potter to 
the Hunger Games (NYU Press, 2019), 4-5 

Mary Robinson Hendra 
Program Director for Los Angeles and Organizational Innovation 
Facing History and Ourselves 

 
 
 
 
 
