From: Mantej Singh  
Sent: Monday, March 30, 2020 10:18 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Mantej Singh and I live in Fremont, California. I attend Washington High 
School in Fremont Unified School District and I am a current junior.  

Throughout my schooling career, I have witnessed firsthand that Sikhism has been 
excluded from the teaching curriculum. Ever since 7th grade, there has been no 
information regarding the rich history of our religion, and there has been nothing done 
about it to this day. Due to the lack of inclusion, I decided to start giving presentations to 
my classes about Sikhism in order to raise more awareness. This however, has not put 
an end to racism. I have received my fair share of racist insults and the only way to 
prevent this is to educate more students about the Sikhs.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 

the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 
Mantej Singh 

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
