From: JWoo  
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 2:39 PM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc:  Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] In Support of Resolution 75 – 19/20 re: Ethnic Studies 

Hello Oakland Unified School Board Members, 

I am a teacher in OUSD, and I stand in solidarity with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft 
as created by Ethnic Studies teachers, professors and educators of color from across the state.  

We need more resources, curricula and support to better reflect our incredibly diverse student 
population in Oakland.  Our Arab American, Pacific Islander and Central American student 
populations are significant and growing in OUSD, and they deserve to see themselves reflected 
in our classroom content.  Our staff and other students should also learn this history.  Our 
history textbooks are outdated, insufficient and continue to be far too Eurocentric, and 
sometimes offensive or minimizing to communities of color.  

Ethnic Studies has been important to my professional growth and efficacy as a teacher in 
Oakland for the past decade.  I was trained in teaching English and History, and the most 
common piece of feedback I received from my students was that history was depressing 
because of the genocide, trauma, and setbacks to equality that we learned about.  The OUSD 
Ethnic Studies Resolution that you passed in 2015, and the professional development that 
accompanied that resolution helped me improve my teaching practice.  It provided a framework 
to guide me in transforming my curriculum so that my students understood not only the historical 
oppression, but also individual and community resistance and resilience.  It made me a more 
effective teacher for which you awarded me the honor of Teacher of the Year in 2018, and it 
made my students more empowered critical thinkers.  The California Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum would extend the groundbreaking work we have done in Oakland to meet the needs 
of our diverse student populations and fill in curriculum gaps that currently exist so that all our 
students can truly see themselves reflected in the curriculum.   

Please vote yes on the proposed resolution by Directors Torres, Eng and Hinton to show 
OUSD’s support for Ethnic Studies and our diverse students! 

Thank You, 
Jah-Yee Woo 
Teacher & Oakland Resident 
Oakland Tech 
Districts 1 & 2 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
