From: Jean Quan  
Sent: Wednesday, May 27, 2020 5:48 AM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies 

Dear Oakland School Board Directors, 

We write to support the proposed resolution endorsing the Curriclum proposed for the 
Ethnic Studies program mandated by the State of California. After 50 years it is long 
past time for public schools to teach Ethnic Studies on a statewide basis.  

We were the founders of Ethnic Studies at UCB in 1969. Our program included Oakland 
High School students and service learning projects at many OUSD sites. Ethnic 
Studies was meant to serve the Oakland community and its diverse student 
population.  It was not general multicultural education, it was based on serving 
the students of color whose history and communities were excluded from the 
university. We hoped all students would learn a truer history of this nation that included 
the institutional role of racism, exploitation, exclusion and discrimination. 

Floyd served as the first Asian American Studies coordinator. Jean organized and help 
to teach in the first Asian Womens Course in 1970.   

As a an OUSD school board member I led APISBMA (Asian American School Board 
Members Association) and the first statewide K-12 school board conference on 
AsianAmerican Studies. Oakland has a proud history of pioneering many programs and 
developing Curriculum units representing the diversity of our students; we led battles for 
more inclusive textbooks. We worked with Stanford and other districts to develop 
missing materials on Islam, Southeast Asian, Japanese American internment and 
Pacific Island cultures for our OUSD students. 

I spoke at the last State School Board discussing the Ethnic Studies curriculum at the 
request of UCB Ethnic Studies students. I spoke on how the groups that made up the 
first Ethnic Studies program were based on the underrepresented students of color at 
the University and the Community --Black, Chicano, Asian Pacific American and Native 
Americans.  As immigration has brought immigrants to California, the program now 
includes new groups including many more Pacific Islanders and Muslim students, esp 
Yemenis.  Oakland has the largest Yemeni community in California as well as 
Arabs/Muslims from many Middleast and African nations, we can play an important role 
in curriculum development for these students. 

It was clearly the opinion of the majority the State Board that "Ethnic Studies" was the 
study of the history and contributions of these original minority groups and new 
immigrant majorities. 

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
We are very concerned that there are attacks on including Arab, Central American 
or Pacifc Island groups into Ethnic Studies. An honest and supportive program in 
this city must include them. 
We fully support the proposed resolution and at the same time support the continuation 
of Jewish American studies as well. They cannot be pitted against each other, both can 
be supported.  

Thank you for your consideration   
Jean Quan, 
former Mayor and former School Board President   
Dr. Floyd Huen, 
Founder UCB Ethnic Studies, former Asian American Studies Coordinator 

  
