From: Kalimah Salahuddin  
Sent: Monday, June 1, 2020 11:10 AM 
To: Lavender Whitaker; Terry Deloria 
Cc: [email redacted]; Sanchez, Mark; Parvin Ahmadi; Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Ethnic Studies Resolution 

Hello, 

My name is Kalimah Salahuddin, I am the Board President of the Jefferson Union High School 
District.  Thank you for your email.  The resolution is on the agenda to approve tomorrow.  The 
board and our Superintendent stand united in the fight for equity and a culturally relevant and 
inclusive curriculum that is reflective of our student body in our classrooms.  I am proud to 
support this effort and I am very glad to serve with board members and a Superintendent who 
share that same vision. 

Thank you, 

Kalimah 

From: Lavender Whitaker  
Sent: Monday, June 1, 2020 9:47 AM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Subject: Ethnic Studies Resolution 

Dear Fellow School Board Members, 

We are Lavender Whitaker, Mark Sanchez, and Patricia Murray, respectively, the School Board 
Presidents of the Boards of Education in Castro Valley Unified, San Francisco Unified, and 
South San Francisco Unified.  In April and May our trustees unanimously adopted a resolution 
affirming support of AB2016 California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft. We are 
reaching out to request that you do the same.  In the name of diversity, many of our students of 
color, similar to yours, are part of these marginalized groups, and it is time for there to be a 
curriculum that addresses this equity issue, while also benefiting white students. In this way all 
students can learn about and gain a better understanding of each other. 

Since the late 1960s, when Ethnic Studies was first created and became an interdisciplinary 
program on UC campuses as well as at the California State University level, it has served not 
only as an academic field but also as a powerful force for student performance and graduation 
rates.  We recognize and applaud the current efforts with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
(ESMC), which ensures a curriculum that provides fair representation for students of color and 
those facing increasing discrimination in the current global climate, and which has been 
developed by leading Ethnic Studies educators in our state and world. 

AB2016 California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft is an important step in the right 
direction and is in alignment with the core values of celebrating diversity, commitment to 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
inclusion, and ensuring equity.  We believe that the ESMC is also in alignment with the mission 
of Jefferson Union High School District.  

We all know that the challenges for our students today are ever increasing.  As policy makers, 
we need to take the lead and address their needs and provide opportunities and access in a variety 
of ways.  We believe that communities of color have been working towards this Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum draft for 50+ years and that it is important to support the work of the leading 
Ethnic Studies educators in the state today. This is an important step forward for all our students, 
which is why we support the ESMC draft and hope tonight you will vote to support it as well. 

Sincerely, 

Lavender Whitaker, Board President 
Castro Valley Unified School District     

Mark Sanchez, Board President 
San Francisco Unified School District   

Pat Murray, Board President 
South San Francisco Unified School District 

 
 
 
 
 
 
