From: Kim Browning  
Sent: Tuesday, June 30, 2020 12:00 PM 
To: GAD  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Expanding Education 

Higher education Hello. 

I write to you with the utmost respect for your continued dedication to education.  
I’m writing to express the need to cover, create and include new programs, classes and curriculums focusing specifically 
on education of racial issues expanded in our classrooms, specifically in our law departments. 

Being a later in life student myself, while attending college and earning my degree, I came to the disheartening and 
disturbing realization that inside our law programs across the country, acts of discriminative Racially motivated cases are 
not being focused on and taught at the same collegiate level as many other pressing issues. 
After doing my own research, I’ve discovered most curriculums have few college courses available for students to dissect 
laws regarding race as its main subject. Many times it’s also tied in with other topics without getting its own deserved 
focus in the classroom. However, most of these courses are not covering, teaching or curious about laws associated with 
racist behavior alongside the legality of the consequences of racist behaviors! We need to help educate by reorganizing 
our teachings to our students and our society as a whole, stressing the legal do’s and dont’s will help educate everyone. 
If we can teach the many forms of racial discrimination/ethics law in the classroom, then we are in Fact teaching many 
issues that some students aren’t and wouldn’t ever be aware of. 
 I hope we can all understand the need to become more knowledgeable on the many forms of racism. Systemic racism, 
police/legal racism, Fear racism, Polite Racism,  learned racism, social media racism, healthcare racism, job opportunity 
racism etc- that all prevail due to lack of education and conversation on and around these issues. Having a set curriculum 
on these prevalent issues will not only educate and stir change into our laws, but encourage and enrich our students 
looking to build a career in this field, to know all areas of our vivid world are being worked on to create new systems that 
work for all. 
To realize there are consequences to actions even though they have not been instilled, yet. To educate so our students 
can work towards instilling new systems, to educate so more people are aware that we have to work towards instilling 
new systems. But first we must be offered an opportunity to learn about it. If this topic is explored more in our 
classrooms our senseless acts as a people will decrease. 
I look forward to a much needed update and change in our education programs.  To help understand the true meaning 
of Black Lives Matter! The idea is by educating we can eventually end all forms of racism. Thank you for your time and 
we as a people look forward to your response! 
Sincerely 
Kim Browning 

 
 
 
