rom: Julia Bianco  
Sent: Thursday, June 4, 2020 1:20 PM 
To: Superintendent  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Teach Black History in Schools 

Dear Mr. Thurmond, 

The disproportional impact of Covid-19 and the staggering impact of police brutality on 
black people in the US has gone largely unacknowledged by those in authority. This is 
galling for those in the voting public who are grief-stricken by recent global events, and 
yet is also an unsurprising reflection of the US status quo. Structural and 
institutionalised racism are maintained by the lack of recognition of black lives and 
contributions, beginning with our education system. 

According to TNTP, 80 percent of US teachers are white, and 40 percent of public 
schools don't have a single teacher of color. This helps to contribute to a staggering lack 
of education on black history. As a white student who went through the US public school 
system, I learned very little about black history, global or local, and much of what I did 
learn was limited to slavery and the civil rights movement. Black contributions to our 
society go so much further than that, and that needs to be highlighted in the curriculum. 

Not only does this lack of education lead to the ignorance of white people about the 
history of the US' multiculturalism, it also denies black students across the US the right 
to learn about their history, based on the false assumption that white history is the 
history of all those who study here. The US is not a white nation. It is not built entirely 
upon the backs of white people. History relies on truth, and it is a despicable 
manipulation of the truth to omit the historical and current contribution of black people to 
shaping the US. 

It is unacceptable that white history is placed on a pedestal above black history, as 
learning about black history is not only beneficial to young black people who can see 
themselves reflected in the curriculum, but to everyone who wishes to study history as it 
actually is. 

With inequality and institutionalized racism still heavily apparent in our society, it is all 
the more necessary to ensure that young people are offered a well rounded history 
curriculum to reduce the potential for them to be indoctrinated by a false white narrative. 
I truly feel my education suffered for the lack of black narratives and history that was 
offered. 

I therefore implore you to urge further inclusion of black history in the education 
curriculum. Young black people deserve better than the ignorance it both demonstrates 
and perpetuates. The curriculum ought to reflect the lives of all those it is taught to. I 
appreciate the statement you made saying that reforms are needed; I urge you to 
continue forward with that momentum. 

Yours sincerely, 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Julia Bianco 

 
 
