July 1, 2020 

The Honorable Tony Thurmond 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction, State of California 
1430 N Street, Suite 5602 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

RE: Inclusion of Armenian-Americans in Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

Dear Superintendent Thurmond: 

I respectfully request your strong support for the inclusion of the Armenia-American experience 
among those already included within the Ethnic Studies Curriculum. The discussions of ethnic 
communities and their contributions to the United States and California unfairly disregards the 
contributions of Armenian-Americans to this great nation. It is true that if we include one group, 
another ethnic group will want to be added, which begs the question on where do we draw the 
line?  

The Armenian-American experience and contribution to the history, progression, and the success 
of the United States and California is very similar to the other ethnic minority groups within the 
curriculum. Armenian-Americans have been the target of racism for years. Dating back to the 
1920s, we have seen Armenian immigrants denied citizenship, following visual scrutiny, because 
their skin was not the right shade of “white.” Armenian-Americans were constantly stereotyped 
as looking thievish and dishonest. Adults and children regularly faced racial attacks, such as 
“dirty black Armenian,” “low-class Jew,” and most commonly (and most prominently here in 
California) “Fresno Indian.”  

Fresno, California was a hub for Armenian immigrants in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Many 
Fresno residents considered Armenian immigrants as “non-white” and treated them that way. 
They faced exclusion from social events and discrimination in landowning and employment, and 
were even excluded from a Protestant church they helped create. Armenian-Americans in this 
city faced more institutional forms of discrimination and racism, like restrictive housing 
contracts, until about the mid-twentieth century. 

It is understandably a difficult task to decide where to draw the line when selecting the ethnic 
communities that should be included in the ethnic studies curriculum. However, it should be 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
July 1, 2020 
Page 2 

fairly easy to understand why Armenian-Americans should be included. The very dollars that we 
use every day would not exist in their form without the contributions of Armenian chemist, 
Christopher Der-Seropian. He is credited to have invented the black and green inks that is used 
in our currency. 

Steven Zaillian, an Armenian screenwriter, director, film editor, and producer who was born in 
Fresno, California, has contributed to several critically acclaimed films. One of his earliest 
contributions would be the screenplay he wrote for Schindler’s List. This film is still debuted in 
history classes across the state in order to teach students about the Holocaust. Most recently, he 
wrote the screenplay for Netflix’s The Irishmen. 

Another Armenian California native, William Saroyan, has also greatly contributed to the history 
of this nation. He was a renowned novelist, playwright and short story writer. One of his best 
novels, The Human Comedy, awarded him the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and an Academy Award 
for the film adaptation of it. Saroyan’s creative and unique storytelling ability has kept him alive 
all these years. He has written about how Armenians were considered inferior and that they were 
hated in his hometown of Fresno. William Saroyan has been recognized in the California State 
Legislature for enriching the cultural diversity of the state. This kind of talent does not exist 
everywhere, which is why contributors alike need to be discussed and studied, especially when 
they are native to California.  

Kerkor “Kirk” Kerkorian, also born in Fresno, California, was an Armenian-American 
businessman, investor, and philanthropist. Along with architect Martin Stern, Jr., Kerkorian was 
a significant character in the shaping of Las Vegas. He has been described as the “father of the 
mega-resort” after building a few of the largest hotels in Las Vegas: the MGM Grand Hotel, the 
MGM Grand, and the International Hotel. Kerkorian also entirely funded the movie, “The 
Promise,” a film about the Armenian Genocide, which premiered in April 2017 in the United 
States. However, before Kerkorian had evolved in the business world, he received his 
commercial pilot’s certificate and in the beginning of 1942 and risked his life to deliver 
Canadian-built Mosquito bombers from Labrador to Scotland. He saved the money that he made 
from the trips and bought himself a small charter business in 1947, which led to the beginning of 
his flourishing business empire.  

Rouben Mamoulian, an Armenian-American film and theatre director, is known for his 
innovative use of camera movement and sound, which was seen in his first feature film, 
Applause (1929) that was shot during the early years of sound films. Other notable 1930s films 
that Mamoulian has directed include Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1931)—which is regularly 
considered the best version of the tale—and Queen Christina (1933). Mamoulian was the first to 
stage notable Broadway works Oaklahoma! (1943), Carousel (1945), and Lost in the Stars 
(1949).  

Alex Manoogian was an industrial engineer, businessman, entrepreneur and philanthropist who 
was the founder of Masco Corporation, a home improvement and new home constructions 
manufacturer. Under his leadership, the company grew exponentially and joined the Fortune 500 
list of largest U.S. corporations. Manoogian patented the first successful washerless ball valve, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
July 1, 2020 
Page 3 

the Delta faucet, which is a common type of faucet that can be found in most homes and even 
businesses. His successful investment is a footprint that he has left everywhere—not just in the 
United States.  

Not too long ago, we had the first and only Armenian governor of California, the late George 
Deukmejian, who has changed the history of the state. The late Deukmejian was born in the 
United States because his parents emigrated from the Ottoman Empire in the early 1900s in order 
to escape the Armenian Genocide. It is important that students know this information and 
understand the significance of this ethnic group’s struggles because their sacrifices and 
endeavors have changed the course of California history.  

Evidently, Armenian-Americans have been crucial to the contributions in the history of the 
United States and California since the major wave of Armenian settlers came here in the late 
1890s. The United States’ foreign aid that helped relieve and save Middle Eastern refugees has 
allowed our great nation to be what it is today. It is significant to note that amidst their 
contributions, they have been discriminated against and isolated—characteristics that we have 
seen in the treatment of minority groups throughout the histories of the United States and 
California.  

Armenian-Americans should be included in the Ethnic Studies Curriculum, especially 
considering all of their contributions, despite the discriminations they have consistently faced. 
They have been able to accomplish so much, not just for themselves, but for the wealth and 
benefit of the United States and California.  

If you would like to discuss this further, please contact me at (916) 319-2046. Thank you for 
your attention and consideration on this matter. 

Sincerely, 

ADRIN NAZARIAN 
Member, 46th Assembly District  

cc: The Honorable Toni Atkins, California State Senate President pro Tempore 
The Honorable Anthony Rendon, Speaker of the California State Assembly  
The Honorable Shirley Weber, Assemblymember, 79th District 
The Honorable Jose Medina, Assemblymember, 61st District 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
