From: Noel Sanborn   
Sent: Tuesday, July 14, 2020 12:20 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [email redacted]; AROC 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Arab American Studies Are More Essential Now Than They Ever Have Been 

In America's centuries long struggle to become a nation with 
true equality for all, the incessant and 
pervasive Islamophobia and anti-Arab rhetoric from our 
government, press and even academic institutions of the past 
20 years is a giant step backwards.  To achieve peace for 
America in the Middle East and globally, we need for our 
citizens to hear the voices of all people and to understand other 
cultures and points of view.   

In particular, the silencing of Palestinian voices clamoring for an 
end to land theft, oppression and Apartheid negates all that 
America stands for in supporting the oppressed against 
oppressors.  Ironically, the rampant Islamophobia has not only 
created an "open season" for White Supremacists to attack 
Muslims and Arabs, the feeling that attacks on minorities is 
now OK has been extended to Jews as well, with some 
attackers seemingly flipping a coin as to whether they will 
attack a mosque or a synagogue. 

Arab culture is rich and ancient, extending back to the very 
earliest recorded history of humans in the Fertile 
Crescent.  Over the centuries this culture has reached north 
into Europe, East across Asia and is today a global 
phenomenon.   Understanding it is an essential part of an 
American education. 

  
 
 
I have been blessed with opportunities to spend extended 
periods in Morocco, Turkey and, in the early 1980s, the 
Sudan.  I have also lived in Asia and spent time in the Middle 
East influenced nations of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines 
and in predominantly Muslim parts of China including Yunnan 
and Xinjiang.  Understanding Middle East Culture opens ones 
eyes to vast stretches of humanity. 

Please continue Arab, Muslim and Middle Eastern studies as 
stand alone courses, as integral parts of Middle Eastern studies 
and as an important series of chapters in the history of Asia. 

Noel Sanborn 
Palo Alto, CA  

 
 
 
 
