From: Sydney Ji  
Sent: Thursday, July 2, 2020 4:08 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] I support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, including Arab American Studies 

Hello, 
I am writing to urge for having a comprehensive Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that includes Arab 
American Studies. I was a former K-12 student in Cupertino public school districts and later an 
undergraduate at UC Berkeley. Although I grew up as a second generation Chinese American in a 
majority Asian immigrant and Asian American community, in the bay area reputed to be a "progressive," 
"diverse," and "multicultural," I experienced (and still do) a great deal of microaggressions and 
sometimes overt acts of racism. In K-12, the only history I was taught relevant to my experiences of 
racialization were mere footnotes about Japanese internment and the Chinese Exclusion Act, and even 
when I sought out classes that might be relevant such as a contemporary lit high school class that was 
advertised as including a book about queer Asian experiences, my teacher chose to cut it out due to lack 
of time or interest in teaching it. It was not until college and afterward where I was able to learn much 
more that was grounded in ethnic studies, and this was mainly due to my own interest and willingness 
to spend energy seeking out these learning opportunities. I could say the same about the lack of 
education I received about being queer and/or trans and being disabled. 

I believe it is invaluable for youth, whether they be BIPOC (Black, indigenous, people of color) or white, 
to learn ethnic studies as an integral part of their education. Research on the impact of ethnic studies 
classes has shown it is associated with improved academic, personal, and social outcomes in the 
students that go through them, and can also empower our younger generations to fight for a more just 
world and combat the systemic racism of our society. The recent amplification of long-running 
xenophobia and racism, whether it be anti-Chinese "yellow peril" racism fueled by coronavirus, 
demonization of Latinos as "illegal" migrants and criminals, post-9/11 Islamophobia dangerously 
misportraying Middle Eastern and North African people as terrorists, and police and vigilante murders of 
Black people, as well as the everyday subtler injustices that BIPOC face which have led to their 
disproportionate likelihood of dying from COVID-19 including here in California, only serve to 
underscore the urgency and significance of having comprehensive ethnic studies education. 

Thank you for your time! 
Sydney Ji 
--  
Sydney Ji, they/them 
Languages: EN, FR, learning ES, understand a little JP 
Living on unceded Chochenyo Ohlone land 

  
 
 
 
