From: Erin Mathieu  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 12:36 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Keep Arab American Studies in the Ethnic Studies program! 

Hello, 

I am writing to you today to urge you to keep Arab American Studies in California's Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum. I am a student in California and fully support ESMC, including Arab 
American studies. In these times of Islamophobia and xenophobia, it is so critical to include 
West Asian American experiences in Ethnic Studies, so that West Asian American students can 
see their experiences valued and reflected back to them, and other students can learn about 
their experiences and culture.  

Palestinian experiences, history, and current movements MUST also be included in ESMC. I hear 
that there have been some concerns over whether teaching about the Palestinian experience is 
anti-semitic. I am here to firmly emphasize that this is not the case - it is not anti-semitic to 
defend human rights, or to call out the actions of a corrupt government and the political (not 
religious) groups that support it. Claiming that criticizing Israel is inherently anti-semitic paints 
the incredibly false image that something about oppressive racial apartheid is inherently 
Jewish, and not just another example of power corrupting people. It erases the thousands of 
Jewish people who stand against the oppressive Israeli regime, often using their Jewish faith as 
the basis for them to stand for human rights and Palestinian freedom.  

I also demand that any and all revisions that affect Arab American studies be made in 
collaboration with Arab American scholars and Ethnic Studies practitioners, in order to ensure 
the best and most accurate program possible for California's students.  

California is an example for the rest of the country in so many ways. You have the 
opportunity here to set a powerful precedent for the inclusion of West Asian & Arab American 
experiences in education, as well as to teach students about standing up for human rights.  

Thank you for your time. 
Erin Mathieu 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
