CDE NOTE: There was no attachment provided with this item. 

From: Rabbi Daniel Bouskila  
Sent: Tuesday, July 21, 2020 2:46 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Tony Thurmond; Superintendent; Ethnic Studies; Stephanie Gregson; Shanine Coats; SBE; [emails 
redacted]; IQC  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Antisemitism and Middle Eastern American Jews – Inclusion of Lesson Plan 

To the California State Board of Education and the IQC: 

I hope this note finds you well. I’m writing to you on behalf of the Sephardic 
Educational Center, a Los Angeles-based educational and cultural 
organization dedicated to teaching the history, philosophy and culture of 
Sephardic Jewry from the Middle East and North Africa. Sephardic 
Educational Center communities are an engaged portion of the 500,000 
Middle Easterners residing in California who were omitted from the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum and we are proud to work with a broad coalition of 
Middle Eastern organizations promoting our inclusion.  

On August 15, 2019, the Sephardic Educational Center, in partnership with 
eleven Mizrahi and Sephardic Jewish communal organizations in 
California, submitted our feedback regarding the draft Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum, in addition to a lesson plan titled, “Around the Middle Eastern 
Jewish World.” To reiterate, our communities support AB 2016 and we firmly 
believe that now, more than ever, our students need rigorous educational 
opportunities to study issues of race and ethnicity.  

We are very proud to support the lesson plan submitted by JIMENA to SBE on 
July 14, 2020, titled, “Antisemitism  and Middle Eastern-American Jews.” This 
lesson plan was written to specifically fit into California’s Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum and it teaches students about antisemitism and the American 
Jewish experience through the lens of Middle Eastern Jewish Americas – the 
community my organization represents. As an indigenous, sub-ethnic group 
from the Middle East, who descend from nearly one-million Jewish refugees 
from the region, our communities have collectively dealt with issues of 
oppression, resistance, statelessness, immigration and also social 
responsibility, and the empowerment that comes from imaging and creating 
new possibilities for the improvement of society. Our experiences as Middle 
Easterners and as Jews provides a unique, intersectional vantage point for 
the integration of Jewish content into the curriculum.  

 
 
  
 
  
 
Attached you will find a completed public input template with our updated 
requests which we hope to see included in the next version of the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum. 

Thank you, 

Rabbi Daniel Bouskila 
Executive Director 
Sephardic Educational Center 

  
  
 
