From: Michael Malek Najjar  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 10:02 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Please Retain Arab American Studies in CA Ethnic Studies 

TO: California Board of Education Instructional Quality Commission 
FROM: Michael Malek Najjar, PhD, MFA  
Associate Professor of Theatre Arts 
University of Oregon 
DATE: 7/20/2020 
RE: In Support of the CA Model Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

Dear CA Board of Education IQC Members: 

My name is Michael Malek Najjar and I am an associate professor of Theatre Arts with the University of 
Oregon. I am also a member of the Arab American Studies Association and my research focus is Arab 
American and Middle Eastern American Theatre. 

It has come to my attention that you plan to eliminate Arab American studies from your California 
Ethnic Studies Curriculum. In addition, you plan on branding any mention of Palestine as anti-Semitic.  

Our Arab American community is currently under siege. This community, which is comprised of a 
dazzling array of ethnicities, cultures, and religions, has faced societal and governmental persecution 
since the first Muslim slave was brought to these shores in 1527. The people that comprise the so-called 
Arab World have been coming to the shores of this nation in successive waves since the late nineteenth 
century and have contributed to virtually every facet of this nation’s economic, political, and cultural life 
ever since. Along the way they have been victims of untold numbers of anti-Semitic (yes, Arabs are 
Semites too), anti-Arab, anti-Muslim, and xenophobic attacks. There have been many governmental 
actions that have sought to limit their immigration, curtail their rights, and create conditions in this 
country that have made their existence here difficult, if not untenable. 

To add insult to this injury, Middle Eastern Americans (including Arabs) have been perniciously 
stereotyped, maligned, and debased in American popular entertainment. From relatively harmless 
portrayals as belly dancers and exotic sheiks to the more recent malicious portrayals of them as suicide 
bombers, hostage takers, and oppressed maidens, the ugly and hurtful images that are produced in 
major entertainment studios and theatres have led to more fear and loathing of this group.  

Therefore, Arab American studies is necessary within the rubric of Asian American studies. In an era rife 
with Islamophobia, Arabophobia, and xenophobia, it is necessary to educate our youth about this Asian 
American group (yes, the Middle East is part of Southwest Asia and North Africa). To label this group as 
anti-Semitic is both terribly reductive and semantically incorrect. As I stated above, Arabs are Semites 
and, being so, are also portrayed negatively in anti-Semitic literature and entertainment. If this 
curriculum defends human rights, how can that possibly be negative? Arab American studies champions 
the rights of oppressed people throughout the Middle East including the various pogroms against Jewish 
groups, the oppression of political rights and free speech by dictatorial regimes backed by Western 
powers, the rights of Palestinians who are living under occupation, the rights of Christians who have 
been persecuted and forcibly removed from many Arab countries. The list goes on and on. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I teach Middle Eastern American theatre and I am always astonished by how little U.S. students know 
about the Middle East and its people. Highly educated university seniors have difficulty finding two to 
three nations on a map of the Middle East. There is very little knowledge of the people of this region, 
their religions, their cultures, and their day-to-day lives. I am telling you that we have a woefully 
underinformed and, frankly, ignorant populace regarding the Middle East. My students are uniformly 
pleased when they take my course and thank me for filling in gaps in their knowledge left behind by our 
education system. That is why this curriculum is necessary. I urge you to do the right thing and to 
include this curriculum in California Ethnic Studies. Our young people deserve more knowledge, more 
perspectives, and more understanding. Thank you for your attention. 

Sincerely, 

Michael Malek Najjar, PhD, MFA   

--  
Michael Malek Najjar, PhD, MFA 
Associate Professor of Theatre Arts 
Pronouns: He/Him/His (what's this?) 
University of Oregon  
Eugene, OR  

Author: Middle Eastern American Theatre: Communities, Cultures and 
Artists (https://www.bloomsbury.com/us/middle-eastern-american-theatre-9781350117044/) and Arab 
American Drama, Film and Performance: A Critical Study, 1908 to the 
Present (http://www.mcfarlandpub.com/book-2.php?id=978-0-7864-9516-0). Editor: Heather Raffo's 
Iraq Plays: The Things That Can't Be Said (https://www.bloomsbury.com/us/heather-raffos-iraq-plays-
the-things-that-cant-be-said-9781350145184/),The Selected Works of Yussef El 
Guindi (https://www.bloomsbury.com/us/the-selected-works-of-yussef-el-guindi-9781350057173/), 
and Four Arab American Plays: Works by Leila Buck, Jamil Khoury, Yussef El Guindi, and Lameece Issaq & 
Jacob Kader (http://www.mcfarlandbooks.com/book-2.php?id=978-0-7864-7486-8).Co-editor: Six Plays 
of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict (https://mcfarlandbooks.com/product/six-plays-of-the-israeli-
palestinian-conflict/). 

"Once you have perceived that life is very cruel, the only response is to live with as much humanity, 
humor, and freedom as you can." --Sarah Kane, playwright (1971-1999). 

I’m a Dreamer Ally & support all students & coworkers, regardless of immigration status or country of 
origin. I stand with our international students. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
