From: Karla Kelly  
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 11:43 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc:  Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Inclusion of Arab American studies 

I fully support the inclusion of Arab American studies in K-12 curriculum in schools for the following 
reasons: 

• 

• 

I am a parent of an educator, and grandparent to children ages 3, 4 and 6.  It is 
important that I know my grandchildren will receive appropriate instruction on Arabs or 
Muslims that is anti-racist, anti-Islamophobic and anti-xenophobic.  The history and 
struggles of the Palestinian people must be a part of that curriculum.  I traveled to Israel 
and the West Bank in 2019 as a tourist and saw with my own eyes the racial disparities 
rampant there and a truly apartheid environment that treats Palestinians as less than 
human and devoid of an appreciation of their dignity, human rights and civil liberties. 
Further, it is not antisemitic to defend human rights, and include Palestinian history and 
current movements in Ethnic Studies, any more than it is anti-American to insist that 
persons of color are treated fairly, without discrimination and their human rights are 
defended.  Racial justice, freedom from bigotry and racism and access and enjoyment of 
equality and dignity  is a human right and not the protected province of any particular 
group of people, whether based on economic status, race, ethnicity, privilege or custom. 

•  Ethnic Studies is critical in primary, secondary and higher education, and the need for it 
in this era of racial unrest, prejudice against Arabs and Muslims in our country and 
bigotry is so apparent.  We need to ensure the curricula for our children guides them to, 
and builds in them, empathy, unity and solidarity and an appreciation and respect for 
diversity with each other, no matter what ethnicity or race or country of origin, which 
strengthens and supports movements for justice for all in this country.   
In an era exacerbated by the current administration’s vocal and overt disparagement of 
Muslims and Arabs, we need clear measures to counteract this social inequity and 
harmful racism and racist rhetoric which leads to physical, emotional and psychological 
damage to all involved. 

• 

•  Television and the internet are steeped in supporting racial disparity in cartoons, movies 

and advertisements,  all of which my grandchildren witness, and I want a K-12 
curriculum that counteracts those harmful and messages.  I want to be sure that they 
will experience positive personal, academic and social outcomes as they grow toward 
adulthood. 
It is very important to me that CA Board of Education’s Instructional Quality Commission 
(IQC) keeps the  CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) intact, including the 
proposed Arab American studies curriculum for all the reasons stated in this statement 
of public support. 
It is also important to me that Arab American studies are included in Asian American 
studies, and that any revisions should be made in collaboration with Arab American 
scholars and Ethnic Studies practitioners 

• 

• 

•  As a parent and a grandparent,  I need the support of primary, secondary and higher 
education to reflect and support my values that are linked to justice, fairness and 
equality, to instill these concepts in the minds of my little grandchildren who deserve a 
better world than the one they were born into. 

  
  
Sincerely, 

Karla R. Kelly 

Escondido, CA   

  
  
  
 
