To the California Department of Education, State Board of Education, and members of the 
Instructional Quality Commission, 

We are Jewish high school students and non-Jewish student allies from across California, 
writing to you in hopes of gaining a better understanding of your plans regarding the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). We come from diverse backgrounds, including Persian 
Jews, Latinx Jews, Black Jews, Sephardi Jews, Mizrachi Jews, Ashkenazi Jews, Israeli Jews, 
Jews from the former Soviet Union, and more. 

We understand that your urgent priority is dealing with the many challenges COVID-19 poses 
for our schools and education system, and thank you for your tireless efforts on our behalf. We 
are sharing our concerns now to give you time to respond ahead of the upcoming Instructional 
Quality Commission meeting about the ESMC on August 13th. 

In its most recent Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Update, the California Department of 
Education (CDE) wrote that, "Ethnic studies as a whole should represent a broad range of 
topics, but it must devote a special emphasis to people of color, including their experiences and 
their important role in our state and national history." 

We understand that the CDE is planning to recommend changes that would result in a 
curriculum that focuses on four groups: African American, Asian American, Chicana/o/x and 
Latina/o/x, and Native American. We wholeheartedly support an ESMC that centers those four 
communities. Now more than ever, we believe in high school ethnic studies courses as a way to 
empower students, build understanding, and eradicate racism.  

What remains unclear is how the curriculum will also “represent a broad range of topics” and 
meet previous commitments to add material about the Jewish community and antisemitism. We 
believe the ESMC can focus on the crucial mission of empowering our peers from the four 
above-mentioned groups, while also including Jews and other diverse ethnic communities 
across California.  

A major goal of ethnic studies is for students from underrepresented groups to see their 
histories and experiences reflected in the classroom. Especially given the rise of antisemitism in 
high schools, this should apply to diverse Jewish students like us. 

Nazi salutes at parties

swastikas drawn on high school buildings

Far too many of us have faced anti-Jewish hatred. Antisemitic incidents in high schools across 
California include 
Nazi songs sung by school sports 
. In the bigger picture, it has been roughly one year since the 
, and 
teams
Jewish community in Poway was attacked by a white supremacist terrorist, and 
continues to rise
full understanding
witnessed a national controversy about antisemitic rhetoric on social media. 

 of racism and discrimination in America. Even as we wrote this letter, we 

antisemitism 
crucial to building a 

Learning about antisemitism in all its forms is 

 in our state. 

, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
Beyond the issue of antisemitism, we believe learning about the Jewish community in its full 
diversity would add value to ethnic studies courses. In addition to the Holocaust and early 
immigration from Europe, schools should teach about the stories of Jewish refugees and 
immigrants from the Arab world, Iran, Israel, Central and South America, and the former Soviet 
Union. The experiences of Jews of color are essential to cover as well.  

Jews are an example of religious and ethnic identity being interconnected. Jewish experiences 
with oppression, immigration, fighting for human rights alongside other groups, and contributing 
to American culture have much to offer students of all backgrounds. Our identities prove that 
ethnicity and identity are not monolithic and we hope that these stories are shared in ethnic 
studies courses across California. 

Given the problems with the first draft, we also believe particular care must be taken to ensure 
the ESMC does not become a platform to promote hateful campaigns such as the boycott 
against Israel (BDS), or one-sided political agendas in any form. When the first draft was 
released, the 
 wrote that, “This curriculum feels like it is more about 
imposing predigested political views on students than about widening their perspectives.” As 
high school students, we expect to be taught how to think, not what to think. 

LA Times Editorial Board

We know that you cannot disclose the specific changes you will be recommending at this stage. 
That said, we are asking for clarity about the following issues: 

- How will you ensure that the ESMC fulfills the broad vision of AB 2016, alongside its crucial 
emphasis on the African American, Asian American, Chicana/o/x and Latina/o/x, and Native 
American communities? 

- Will the ESMC include guidance and resources for teachers in regards to antisemitism and 
California's diverse Jewish community? 

- How will instructional materials about the Jewish community and other communities be vetted, 
approved, and presented to teachers across the state? 

- How will you ensure that the ESMC is not used to promote “predigested political views” or 
hate, and instead empowers students to understand many different perspectives, think critically, 
and make up our own minds about controversial issues? 

Thank you for your time and consideration. 

Sincerely, 

 
 
​
​
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danielle York 
Tamir Ziv 

Abbi Agnew 
Eliza Aiken 
Natalie Arbatman 
Esther Avrahamy 
Michael Baravarian 
Meshi Benezri 
Aaron Benyamini 
Ilan Berdy 
Charlotte Bishov 
Bella Bitran 
Gila Braun 
Sofie Braunstein 
Hana C 
Josephine Chae 
Karen Chandler 
Jesse Chavez 
Bianca Cherry 
Ava Cherry 
Adam Cohen 
Hannah Danzig 
Ariel Dardashti 
Benjamin Davis 
Sharon Dohm 
Ella Eisen 
Ava  Eisenberg 
Simone Elliott 
Ada Ellisman 
Ezra Ellisman 
Izzy Falchuk 
Melina Feradouni 
Emma Fox 
Anja  Gluch 
Noe Horton 
Nicholas Horton 
Nicole Houman 
Brooke Jenkins 
Alessandra Judaken 
Julia Kamara 
Mika Kantor 
Elizabeth  Kaplan 
Joey Kaufman 
Shaya Keyvanfar 
Anisa Khan 

Sherry Khoshbin 
Dillon Khoubian 
Sonia Klein 
Sofi  Koretz 
Sophia Lager 
Rachel Lee 
Orr Levav 
Cherie Lewis 
Moshe Litenatsky 
Olivia Maizes 
Eric Marzouk 
Anna Maya 
Ben Norouzi 
Sophia Norouzi 
Natalie  Pearce 
Michaela  Pelta 
Jaden Penhaskashi 
Gabriel Pernell 
Jordan Poltorak 
Rabin Pournazarian 
Eli Pournazarian 
Jonah Pournazarian 
Rachel Pournazarian 
Shayna Rabin 
Nikki Rah 
Danny Rose 
Hannah Safaie-Kia 
Eli Safaie-Kia 
Talia  Segal 
Rachel Sheff 
Ariella Simoni 
Brianna Sommer 
Michaela  Springer 
Elaine  Stelton 
Samantha Sternberg 
Isabella Szabo 
Ellia Torkian 
Sophia Uecker 
Harrison Wechsler 
Brandon Weiner 
Zaya Woody 
Bella Yadegar 
Davina  Yashar 

