From: Sharif Zakout  
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 5:19 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: AROC; Superintendent; [email redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Support of ETHS Model Curriculum + Arab-Am Studies 

Dear Members of the IQC and Superintendent Tony Thurmond, 

My name is Sharif Zakout, and I am an organizer with the Arab Resource and Organizing Center 
(AROC) in the SF-Bay Area. I’ve worked with the youth in my community for the last 7 years 
running programs within OUSD and SFUSD Middle schools and High schools. Our organization 
has been on the frontlines advocating for and supporting our families around immigration, 
language access, and education equity. I’m writing to you today to urge you all to move forward 
in support of the current ETHS model curriculum. 

The youth we work with were thrilled to hear that they were going to be represented within 
this Ethnic Studies curriculum. As an Arab who also went through the CA public school system, I 
could understand this excitement. The youth we work with still experience the very same 
racism that I dealt with over a decade ago. Very little has changed in regards to the issues they 
face, yet the level of Islamophobia and anti-Arab racism we face has only grown since. Post-
9/11, as Arabs and Muslims, we’ve become more and more hyper-visible within the media, 
depicted as terrorists, enemies, and/or savages. Like many of our youth, growing up Palestinian 
meant I invited “controversy” and politics inside and outside the class room without even 
speaking a single word. In the Trump era, multiple Arab and Muslim communities are being 
banned, bombed, and occupied simultaneously. At the same time we are completely invisible 
within any curriculum, only brought up when we were considered a “problem”.  So when folks 
learned that there would be an institutional shift in our education that gave our communities 
control over our own narrative, it was a big deal. Our communities are paying attention. 

As both a grad student of Ethnic Studies, and as a Palestinian, it is absolutely ridiculous to claim 
that our community has no place in this Ethnic Studies curriculum. Ethnic studies is not about 
multiculturalism, it’s about studying and addressing systems of power and oppression. It is the 
study of liberation and anti-colonialism, led by and for people of color who’ve been historically 
marginalized by white supremacy. The inclusion of Arab American studies within Asian Am 
studies is a continuation of that legacy, calling truth to power and those who wage war globally. 
As far as our historic contributions, what would Ethnic Studies be without writers like Edward 
Said, Frantz Fanon, Joseph Massad, Angela Davis or Jasbir Puar? All of whom produced key 
readings in Ethnic studies that have expressed devoted international solidarity with Palestine 
and the Arab struggle against imperialism and colonialism. It was ethnic studies that made me 
passionate about the links between my people’s struggle, and other communities struggling 
against state oppression globally. Our struggles are interlinked and they cannot be invisibilized. 

Superintendent Thurmond, I had the pleasure of meeting you in Berkeley several 
months back.  I spoke to you about the racism our communities felt, our historic 

  
 
 
 
  
contributions and connections to ethnic studies, and the importance of this curriculum to 
our families. You assured us that our communities were valued. We are disheartened to 
learn through public media that you may be in support of erasing our history and culture 
from the curriculum. 

It is still not too late for your Superintendent Thurmond, and the rest of the IQC, to stand in 
solidarity with communities who are uplifting the spirit and legacy of Ethnic studies. We urge 
you once again to please support the current ETHS model curriculum and to stand on the right 
side of history. 

Thank you for your time, 
Sharif Zakout 

--  
Sharif Zakout 
Lead Organizer 
Arab Resource and Organizing Center (AROC) 

 
 
 
 
 
