From: lila lavender  
Sent: Monday, July 27, 2020 3:10 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] INCLUDE ARAB AMERICAN STUDIES IN CA ETHNIC STUDIES CURRICULUM! 

Hello,  

I am emailing in strong solidarity with the ESMC, and specifically, with the decolonial struggle to 
include Arab American Studies within ethnic studies curriculum all throughout so called 
'California.'  

Excluding Arab American Studies from ethnic studies, abrogates the existence of 'ethnic studies' 
itself, as Arab American Studies is constitutive to the revolutionary base of ethnic studies itself. 
To elaborate, the ESMC is structured around the core pillars developed by the founders of 
Ethnic Studies in 1969: American Indian studies, Africana/Black studies, Chicanx/Latinx studies, 
and Asian American studies. Following a decades-long tradition in higher education, the ESMC 
includes Arab American studies within Asian American studies. Leading Asian American 
scholars, including the National Association of Asian American studies, have issued statements 
defending the inclusion of Arab American studies in the CA ESMC. SWANA lives must be 
defended, which means the attempted colonial abstraction of Arab American Studies from 
ethnic studies must be refused. Anything else would be nothing more settler opportunism, and 
as such, allegiance to global settler (and neocolonial) society; imperial war on the self-
determination of Black, Brown, and Indigenous people globally.  

Specifically, this inclusion of Arab American Studies with ethnic studies curriculum, MUST 
dedicate epistemological (and matieral) defense/aid/organizing for Palestinian liberation; 
decolonization of Palestine, from the river to the sea. This must be done not only because the 
decolonial history of Palestinian liberation (and Palestinian lives) are by definition 'Indigenous' 
and 'Arab,' and as such their exclusion would be nothing more than the settler project of 
Zionism. Additionally though, the ongoing organization of revolutionary Palestinian power, 
serves as a vanguard for decolonization everywhere. In persistent internationalist development 
with Black, and other colonized, revolutionaries, Palestinian revolutionaries/revolutionary 
organizations have always been on the cutting strategic edge of anti-colonial praxis. This means 
that excluding such from an ethnic studies program would not only be colonial in form, but also 
(in doing so), would betray the very purpose for ethnic studies existence in the first place. It 
would not only fail to be an education model devoted to the principled development of 
decolonial pratice, but it would work against the purpose of ethnic studies itself; to aid in BBI 
people synthesizing the tools for their (and thus the globe's) liberation.  

Extending the trenchant analysis of Da’Shaun Harrison, Eva, Osama, and Bisan:  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We write this in full solidarity with all oppressed peoples across the globe who struggle under 
the thumb of imperialism. And more specifically, this is a statement of solidarity between our 
two peoples, Palestinians and Black people, as we resist against israeli and american genocide. 
It is also a statement which seeks to name that the material collaboration of our enemies." 

-lila 

 
 
