From: Keith Feldman  
Sent: Tuesday, July 28, 2020 10:39 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [email redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public Comment: An Open Letter from 42 Ethnic Studies Scholars in Support of 
Arab American Studies Curriculum in California High Schools 

An Open Letter from Forty-Two Ethnic Studies Scholars in Support of 
Arab American Studies Curriculum in California High Schools 

July 2020 

The cascading crisis laid bare by Covid-19 reveals vulnerabilities among and between 
communities that are deeply entangled, differentially distributed, and stretched across 
geographical borders. These vulnerabilities have been produced and sustained by deep 
social inequalities sedimented over many decades. As the Arab American Studies 
Association has recently underscored, this moment reveals how the insidious effects of 
racialization based on militarized engagement with countries of origin, fears of the ‘enemy 
within,’ and logics of contagion continue to manifest in ways that can lead to intensified 
racial animus, as witnessed in the overt anti-Asian racism surrounding the pandemic.   
In the face of this crisis, we are grateful to the California Department of Education (CDE) for 
its strong Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft, and its ongoing commitment to offer 
coursework in Ethnic Studies for California’s students. In doing so, the CDE recognizes the 
enduring significance of race in American life, the ethical grounds of multi-directional 
approaches to history, the necessity of offering curricula relevant to communities of color, 
and the critical importance of studying the ways ordinary people work towards equity, 
dignity, and justice. In expanding access to the critical frameworks Ethnic Studies offers in 
this time of great uncertainty, the CDE holds space for students to engage in pedagogies 
oriented towards building more just worlds and better possible futures.      
However, we are troubled by efforts to exclude Arab American studies from the final Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum. The interdisciplinary field of Arab American Studies is a vibrant 
and long-standing dimension of Ethnic Studies, with deep and lasting connections to Asian 
American Studies. In drafting a rich and rigorous model for Arab American Studies in 
California's high schools, the CDE's curriculum writers have powerfully recognized this 
reality. They build on decades of research and teaching that place Arab American lives, 
cultures, and histories at the center of inquiries into the racialized operations of gender, 
sexuality, nationalism, immigration, war, political economy, etc. The Association of Asian 
American Studies and the Arab American Studies Association have both applauded this vital 
work, and see it as a crucial dimension of any Asian American Studies curriculum. We 
concur.    
From the ferment of 1960s social movements against warfare, U.S. imperialism, and racism 
and towards a substantive multiracial democracy--what the late Black Studies scholar 
Manning Marable called the "second reconstruction"--scholars affiliated with the Association 
of Arab American University Graduates situated knowledges about the variety of Arab 
American life in relation to histories of immigration, labor, and war in Asia. As the 1970s and 
1980s saw the widespread normalization of anti-Arab and anti-Muslim racisms in popular 
media and political culture scholars, including Jack Shaheen and Edward Said, documented 
orientalism’s arcs of power and authority that gave such baleful discourse traction. In the 

  
  
  
1990s, Arab American feminist scholars challenged the imperial narratives of rescue and 
reform marshaled to legitimate the first Gulf War and the decimating sanctions regime 
imposed on Iraq, while connecting to domestic struggles against expansive forms of 
policing, incarceration, and the thinning of social programs. Since September 11, 2001, 
scholars in the field have reckoned with the expansive targeting of Southwest Asian and 
North African (SWANA) Americans -- i.e., those often labeled as Arab, Muslim, and Middle 
Eastern Americans -- as a pretext for wider regimes of surveillance, and the shrinkage of 
democratic governance disproportionately affecting all communities of color. In recent 
years, the logics of exclusion and surveillance that buttressed the earliest immigration 
restrictions (from China and Japan, and then the whole "Asiatic Barred Zone,") have again 
been given life through the national security rationale of the Trump administration's policy 
banning entry from Syria, Iran, Yemen, and Libya.     
 The racialization of Arab, Muslim, and SWANA-affiliated Americans in the US thus follows 
a linked trajectory with the field of Asian American studies, particularly in terms of the role of 
US military action on the Asian continent, as well as the role that orientalism has played in 
exclusionary policies toward Asian Americans and SWANA Americans. These links 
between Arab American and Asian American studies are institutionally reflected in a 
number of ways including, but not limited to, the West Asian section of the Association for 
Asian American Studies, the fact that the director of the Arab American Cultural Center at 
UIC holds an appointment in the Global Asian Studies Program, and that a recent special 
issue of the Amerasia journal focused specifically on Arab American studies.               
The above summary shorthands the dense texture within which Arab American studies is 
woven. It refutes the specious claim that the study of Arab American histories, communities, 
forms of expressive culture, and the particular conjunctions of power and difference that 
shape them are somehow external or ancillary to Ethnic Studies. Arab American studies 
offers students critical insight into the long arcs of U.S. immigration, nationalism, religious 
belonging, and refugeehood, and the communities of care, sustenance, and political 
engagement that emerge from these conditions. 
Finally, we fear the possible exclusion of Arab American studies from the Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum is due to its consideration of Palestine, Palestinians, and Palestinian 
Americans as topics worthy of high school study. No genealogy of the field is complete 
without recognizing the importance of Palestine to its formation. Palestine crystallizes for 
students questions of territory, memory, nationalism, settler colonialism, and dispossession; 
questions of race, class, gender, and sexuality; questions of solidarity, agency, 
interconnection, and transnationalism; questions of equity, dignity, and justice. Were the 
CDE to adopt the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum by affirmatively excluding Arab 
American studies on these grounds, it would reproduce and exacerbate precisely the social 
problems the curriculum purportedly sets out to address.  
We urge the California Department of Education to retain Arab American Studies as an 
exemplary dimension of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, along with all other critical 
components of the draft.  
Signed by, 

Keith P. Feldman  
Associate Professor, Ethnic Studies 
University of California, Berkeley 
Secretary, Arab American Studies Association 

  
Amira Jarmakani 
Professor, San Diego State University 
President, Arab American Studies Association 

Sally Howell 
Director, Center for Arab American Studies 
University of Michigan-Dearborn 

Angela Y. Davis 
Professor Emerita, History of Consciousness 
University of California, Santa Cruz 

Roderick A. Ferguson 
Professor 
Yale University 

Robin D. G. Kelley 
Distinguished Professor and Gary B. Nash Endowed Chair in U.S. History 
University of California, Los Angeles 

Tiffany Lethabo King 
Assistant Professor of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and African American Studies 
Georgia State University 

Alex Lubin 
Professor, African American Studies 
The Pennsylvania State University 

Fred Moten 
Professor 
New York University 

Nadine Naber 
Professor, Gender and Women’s Studies and Global Asian Studies 
University of Illinois, Chicago 

Evelyn Alsultany 
Associate Professor of American Studies and Ethnicity 
University of Southern California 

Sarah Gualtieri 
Associate Professor of American Studies and Ethnicity; History and Middle East Studies 
University of Southern California 

Carol W.N. Fadda 
Associate Professor of English 
Syracuse University 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Nitasha Sharma 
Associate Professor, African American Studies, Asian American Studies 
Northwestern University 

Rabab Abdulhadi 
Professor, Arab and Muslim Ethnicities and Diasporas 
San Francisco State University 

Christine Hong 
Associate Professor of Literature and Critical Race and Ethnic Studies 
University of California, Santa Cruz 

Matthew Frye Jacobson 
William Robertson Coe Professor of American Studies and History 
Yale University 

Scott Kurashige 
Author/Scholar of Race and Ethnicity 

Melani McAlister 
Professor, American Studies and International Affairs 
The George Washington University 

Jodi Melamed 
Associate Professor of English and Africana Studies 
Marquette University 

David Palumbo-Liu  
Louise Hewlett Nixon Professor 
Stanford University 

Dylan Rodríguez 
Professor, Media and Cultural Studies 
University of California, Riverside 

Layla Azmi Goushey 
Professor of English 
Saint Louis Community College 

Mejdulene Shomali 
Assistant Professor 
University of Maryland - Baltimore County 

Matthew Stiffler 
Research and Content Manager 
Arab American National Museum 

Ghassan Abou-Zeineddine 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Assistant Professor of English  
Department of Literature, Philosophy, and the Arts 
University of Michigan-Dearborn  

Sophia Armen  
Ethnic Studies, PhD Candidate  
University of California, San Diego  

Louise Cainkar 
Associate Professor 
Marquette University 

Emily Regan Wills 
Associate Professor, School of Political Studies 
University of Ottawa 

Edward E. Curtis IV 
Millennium Chair of the Liberal Arts & Professor of Religious Studies 
Indiana University School of Liberal Arts at IUPUI 

Danielle Haque 
Associate Professor of English  
Minnesota State University, Mankato 

Dr. Jacob Rama Berman 
Associate Professor of English 
Louisiana State University 

Charlotte Karem Albrecht 
Assistant Professor 
University of Michigan -- Ann Arbor 

Pauline Homsi Vinson 
Adjunct Faculty in English 
Diablo Valley College 

Nadia N. Abuelezam, ScD 
Assistant Professor, Connell School of Nursing 
Boston College 

Sunaina Maira 
Professor, Asian American Studies 
UC Davis 

Dr. Stanley Thangaraj 
Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Gender Studies, and International Studies 
City College of New York 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suad Joseph 
Distinguished Research Professor 
University of California, Davis 

Waleed F. Mahdi 
Assistant Professor, US-Arab Cultural Politics 
University of Oklahoma 

Sharon Luk 
Associate Professor  
University of Oregon 

Nadia Y. Kim 
Professor, Sociology 
Loyola Marymount University  

Lucy El-Sherif 
PhD candidate, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education  
University of Toronto 

 
 
 
 
 
 
