Statement in Support of:

The original Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum Draft;

written by 
California 
Department of 
Education’s
Ethnic Studies 
Expert Panelists

July 28th, 2020

the Guiding Values, Principles, 
Outcomes, and Language of 
Ethnic Studies Teaching;

and the continued inclusion of 
Pacific Islander Studies, 
Arab American Studies, 
West Asian American Studies, 
and Central American Studies.

Dear California Governor Newsom, Department of Education, 
State Board of Education, and Instructional Quality Commission:

As your October 15th, 2019 California Department of Education appointed panel of 
Ethnic Studies experts, we write to reaffirm that we unequivocally support the original 
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) Draft, and urge you not to make changes 
that cater to pressures of white supremacist culture, privileged advocacy groups and 
institutional racism. We, as the State of California, must be better than that at this 
moment in 2020 for our students of color and all students, and under your educational 
leadership, we can be.

The National Education Association defines white supremacy culture as “characteristics 
of white supremacy that manifest in organizational culture, and are used as norms 
and standards without being proactively named or chosen by the full group. The 
characteristics are damaging to both people of color and white people in that they 
elevate the values, preferences, and experiences of one racial group above all others. 
Organizations that are led by people of color or have a majority of people of color can 
also demonstrate characteristics of white supremacy culture”. 

There must not be any dilution, censorship, or exclusion of the current defining 
language, concepts, guiding values, principles, outcomes, and framing present in the 
draft. No curriculum is free of bias, and this includes the current K-12 History-Social 
Science Standards (1998) which continue to do harm to students of color daily. This 
is why Ethnic Studies is needed, as the California History-Social Science framework 
(2016) explicitly states, “for students to construct counter-narratives and develop a 
more complex understanding of the human experience”.  Support of this is exactly 
what the current ESMC draft stands as—to help fill a void, glaring in our K-12 curriculum 
standards, and that is one reason why Ethnic Studies has proven so effective in districts 
that both directly inform, and are grounded in the current ESMC draft.

The State Board of Education Ethnic Studies guidelines cannot be sacrificed by 
pressures towards dilution widely perceived as racist by communities of color. The 
current draft addresses the State Board of Education guidelines excellently in integral 
regards including: 

a) Promotes self and collective empowerment;
b) Includes accurate information based on current and confirmed 
(Ethnic Studies) research;
c) Promotes critical thinking and rigorous analysis of history, systems of 
oppression, and the status quo in an effort to generate discussions on 
futurity, and imagine new possibilities.

Ethnic Studies language can be complex because people of color are complex, and we 
must respect California’s teachers as intellectuals, our students as young scholars, and 
not dilute the concepts that have been demonstrated to be transformative in leading 
Ethnic Studies K-12 programs, nationally. There may be further scaffolding, signposting, 
formatting, supplementing, to be supportive of multiple users as both the advisory 
committee requested in April 2019, and that IQC commissioners requested in both 
May and September 2019. However, any dilution, censorship, or exclusion of language 
and concepts would be an undermining of the legacy and field; this would not be done 
to any other discipline and it should not be done to Ethnic Studies. The founders of 
Ethnic Studies, the Black Student Union and Third World Liberation Front from both San 
Francisco State University and University of California Berkeley, attest to this. 

2

Further, Pacific Islander Studies, Arab American Studies and West Asian American 
Studies, and Central American Studies must not be cut from the curriculum. These 
groups are directly tied to the four racialized groups; deleting them from the 
curriculum under the false pretense that any of them do not belong, would be a tragic 
injustice. Asian American Studies leaders and faculty in California agree with where 
Pacific Islander Studies and Arab American Studies are in the current draft. This was 
emphasized by our Asian American Studies representatives of the expert panel in 
October. This insistence among expert Asian American Studies practitioners must 
be respected under the disciplinary deference it merits. The Association of Asian 
American Studies, and Asian American Studies departments throughout the state have 
strongly voiced this. This consensus is clear, evident, and must not be denied under 
the false pretense of it not belonging—we affirm that Arab American Studies and West 
Asian American Studies, and Pacific Islander Studies belong in the ESMC, along with 
Central American Studies and all must remain.   

Our white colleague, expert Ethnic Studies educational researcher, Christine Sleeter 
(the only scholar whose work is specifically cited in AB2016 legislation), urged you 
back in August 2019, “I am concerned that responses to the curriculum, particularly 
by white people, will lead to a dilution of the curriculum in a way that moves it away 
from the powerful and positive impact it can have on students… I firmly hope that 
you will support the work of the ethnic studies curriculum writers and advisory 
committee. They have done an outstanding job of showing us what a model ethnic 
studies curriculum looks like. Units can certainly be added to it, but not in a way that 
undermines it, or delays its passage and implementation.” 

We are the five CDE appointed expert Ethnic Studies panelists; who do not also 
directly serve on the Instructional Quality Commission. With all due respect and 
appreciation to our sixth expert panelist, an Ethnic Studies champion in the legislature, 
Assemblymember Dr. Weber—whose primary role in this project is as an IQC member 
herself—it felt appropriate to not ask Dr. Weber to be both a signatory and a recipient 
of this letter. Asm. Dr. Weber’s comments at both the IQC meeting on September 20th, 
2019, and during our October 15th expert panel, her support for Ethnic Studies and the 
original draft was clear as well. Thus, we write in unanimous support of the original draft 
as 5/5 expert Ethnic Studies panelists who are not on the IQC, and connecting with the 
spirit of our 6th expert panelist, who does sit on the IQC, Assemblymember Dr. Weber.

3

As the experts the CDE appointed, following the 20 educators of color who already came 
to consensus on the overall draft, we thank you for involving us in this process and we 
urge you to do the right thing in this regard, and not dilute, or switch out, the draft by 
any means. Ethnic Studies advocates and communities of color have labored for fifty-plus 
years for this moment, as we continue to be marginalized in mainstream curriculum. 

This moment and Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum project must be one of deep 
educational and racial justice, we thank you for your support at this critical juncture, 
and insist that the pressures of white supremacist culture not dictate what happens 
throughout this process. It is imperative you follow the lead of the Ethnic Studies 
educators of color who developed the draft under the stringent timeframe they 
were given, and listen to the 25,000+ community members of all races and a 
multiplicity of ethnicities who are signed on to the petition in support of the original 
ESMC draft.  In addition, over 150 community based organizations, governing 
bodies, university and high school Ethnic Studies and Education departments, 
professional associations, and institutions—with combined memberships of over 
500,000 people—are in support of the original ESMC draft at this point, which 
includes its disciplinary framing, knowledge, concepts, academic language, and 
pedagogy. We understand that reasonable and very measured revisions that do 
not sacrifice what the guiding Ethnic Studies educators of color insist be in the 
curriculum, are part of the process, and distinct from any exclusions and edits which 
cater to racist societal and institutional pressures.

Can there be a more salient moment in time for the California Department of 
Education, to find the courage to properly and finally punctuate the end of 
miseducation for students of color, and all students in the state of California—by 
supporting the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft rather than diluting and 
silencing it?

Respectfully,
California Department of Education,
Ethnic Studies Expert Panelists

4

Dr. Allyson Tintiangco-Cubales, Ph.D.

Professor of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University

Dr. Ramona Tascoe, M.D., Black Student Union/Third World Liberation Front, 1968, 

San Francisco State University;  University of San Francisco Alumni Association 
President

Assistant Professor of Ethnic Studies at California State University, Sacramento

Dr. Bao Lo, Ph.D. 

Instructor and Program Coordinator of Chicano-Latino Studies, Fresno City College

Matt Espinoza Watson, J.D.

Maribel Rosendo-Servin, Ethnic Studies/Social Science Teacher

East Union High School, Manteca Unified School District
5

California AB2016
Ethnic Studies
Model Curriculum

Guiding Values, 
Principles, and 
Outcomes of 
Ethnic Studies 
Teaching

Given the range and complexity 
of the field, it is important 
to identify key values and 
principles of Ethnic Studies to 
aid in guiding and developing 
Ethnic Studies courses, 
teaching, and learning. 

The foundational values of 
Ethnic Studies are housed in 
the conceptual model of the 
“double helix” which signifies 
the interdependence between 
holistic humanization and 
critical consciousness. 

Humanization includes the values 
of love, respect, hope, solidarity, 
and is based on the celebration of 
community cultural wealth.

The values rooted in humanization 
and critical consciousness shape 
the following guiding principles 
for Ethnic Studies teaching and 
learning. Together, these are the two 
interwoven guiding values and seven 
principles Ethnic Studies lessons 
should include. Ethnic Studies 
courses, teaching, and learning will:

1. CULTIVATE

empathy, community 
actualization, cultural perpetuity, 
self-worth, self- determination, 
and the holistic well-being of all 
participants, especially Native 
People/s and People of Color;

2. CELEBRATE

and honor Native People/s of the 
land and Communities of Color by 
providing a space to share their 
stories of struggle and resistance, 
along with their intellectual and 
cultural wealth;

3. CENTER

and place high value on pre-colonial, 
ancestral, indigenous, diasporic, 
familial, and marginalized knowledge;

4. CRITIQUE

empire, white supremacy, 
anti-Blackness, anti-Indigeneity, 
racism, xenophobia, patriarchy, 
cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, 
ableism, anthropocentrism, 
and other forms of power and 
oppression at the intersections of 
our society;

5. CHALLENGE

imperialist/colonial 
hegemonic beliefs and 
practices on ideological, 
institutional, interpersonal, 
and internalized levels;

6. CONNECT

ourselves to past and 
contemporary resistance 
movements that struggle 
for social justice on global 
and local levels to ensure a 
truer democracy; 

7. CONCEPTUALIZE,

imagine, and build new 
possibilities for post-imperial life 
that promote collective narratives 
of transformative resistance, 
critical hope, and radical healing. 

S
E
C
R
U
O
S

Allyson Tintiangco-Cubales and Edward Curammeng, “Pedagogies of Resis-
tance: Filipina/o Gestures of Rebellion Against the Inheritance of Amer-
ican Schooling,” in Tracy Buenavista and Arshad Ali, eds., Education At 
War: The Fight for aStudents of Color in America (New York, NY: Fordham 
University Press, 2018), 233–238.        

R. Tolteka Cuauhtin, “The Ethnic Studies Framework, A Holistic Overview” in R. 

Tolteka Cuauhtin, Miguel Zavala, Christine Sleeter, and Wayne Au, eds. 
Rethinking Ethnic Studies (Milwaukee, WI: Rethinking Schools, 2019), 
65–75.  

Tara Yosso, 2005. “Whose Culture Has Capital? A Critical Race Theory Discus-

sion of Community Cultural Wealth”, in Race, Ethnicity and Education, 
8(1), 69–91.

DESIGN: Eunice Ho, UCLA Teacher Education Program 
Ethnic Studies Cohort, Class of 2019

