From: manaal.suhail 
Sent: Friday, July 3, 2020 2:02 PM 
To: Superintendent; Ethnic Studies; Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Keep CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) Intact 

To whom it may concern, 
I am a member of the community writing to help ensure that ethnic and arab-american studies continue within 
history curriculums and to voice my support for the ESMC. As we continue our military intervention into the 
middle east and live in a country that gives billions of our tax dollars to the Israeli government it is especially 
important for our youth to understand why and how things are the way they are. Whether we like it or not 
American history is entwined with the middle east, especially with historic Palestine. To deny the education of 
these important parts of history, especially in the era of increasing Islamophobia, is a denial of American history 
and only serves to increase tensions between communities. Next, it can be undoubtedly said that it is extremely 
antisemitic to claim that just because a state centers itself around its jewish identity any attack on that state is 
antisemitic. Not only are you holding all jews accountable for the many human rights violations of Israel, but you 
are also using Jews and Judaism to take the blame of the Israeli governments actions. It is the same reason why it 
is not considered Islamophobic to hold states, like Soudi Arabia, that center themselves around Islam accountable 
for their actions. Next, it furthers the dehumanization of the Palestinian people who are also apart of your 
community. If the United States government can support the Israeli government so heartily, then it can be said 
that the education system must teach its children the history and how it has gotten to this point, and that is a 
conversation that includes the Palestinian people. Finally Arab-American scholars and Ethnic Studies practitioners 
must be a critical part of your program’s revision and writing of Arab American studies. 
Thank you, 
Manaal Suhail 

  
 
