July 7, 2020 

California Department of Education 
1430 N St #5901 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Re:  Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum – Middle East and North Africa 

To: Governor Gavin Newsom, Superintendent Tony Thurmond, State Board of 
Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, Deputy Superintendent 
Stephanie Gregson, Instructional Quality Commission Chair Jose Iniguez, and 
Instructional Quality Commission Executive Director Shanine Coats 

We, the undersigned organizations are writing to request revisions be made 
to the draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). 

Together our groups comprise a minority-majority coalition representing an 
estimated combined total population of over 500,000, or at least 60%, of the 
Middle Eastern diasporic population in California (4,5). Our communities are 
racially, ethnically, culturally, and religiously diverse yet we all identify as 
groups indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) (1) – most of 
whom fled oppression and persecution to ultimately settle in our beautiful 
State of California. 

Despite our high numbers, our communities and stories were omitted from 
the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. The curriculum, as it was written, does 
not reflect Middle Eastern pupil demographics in the State of California nor 
“allow school districts to adapt their courses to reflect the pupil demographics in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
their communities” as AB 2016 (CA Education Code Section 51226.7(b)) 
requires. 

The Middle East and North Africa, which was once one of the most ethnically 
and racially diverse areas of the world, is quickly becoming homogenous as a 
result of the types of oppressions that an Ethnic Studies pedagogy is 
committed to teaching. Our Middle Eastern and North African diasporic 
community’s experiences as persecuted, indigenous, minorities -  and later as 
refugees and immigrants attests to this. Much of the MENA region continues 
to be plagued by civil war and social strife.  With high levels of female 
unemployment (~40%), nearly half of MENA’s population lives on less than 
US$5.50 per day. (2)  

As refugees and immigrants, many of us continue to face discrimination in this 
country, at school, and in our communities with our centers frequent targets 
of hate crimes. We fear that our exclusion from a curriculum, which we 
support, would contribute to the ongoing cultural genocide and erasure of 
minority voices from the Middle East and North Africa.  Our inclusion in the 
curriculum would affirm the important and compelling minority voices from 
the MENA region.  

While the ESMC has a lesson on students mapping the MENA region (3), it 
only explores in depth one, non-representative, regional ethno-religious 
group leaving educators and students to falsely conflate all Middle Easterners 
as “Muslims” and “Arabs.”  In fact, of the estimated 720,000 individuals of 
MENA origin in California, 54% are not Arabs and an estimated 31% are not 
Muslim. (4,5) The ESMC’s current narrow and misleading focus deprives 
students of a critical framework for learning about the full panoply of MENA 
Americans’ experiences. 

At a time when there is great need to provide our students with the highest-
quality education related to race, ethnicity, and nation our hope is to see the 
ESMC include us. We suggest changing the “Arab American Studies” course 
outline to “Middle Eastern American Studies” so the vast majority of Middle 
Eastern and North African children can see themselves reflected in the 
California curriculum and their classmates can learn their family and 
communal stories too.  

 
 
 
 
 
We’d like to reference the California State Board of Education’s 2013 “Social 
Content Standards” (6) as they were so beautifully written and if taken into 
consideration would provide a wonderful reframing for a Middle Eastern 
American Studies Course that is inclusive of diverse MENA communities. 
These standards are focused on diversity and proportions of portrayals -- that 
“help end stereotyping [by] portray[ing] accurately and equitably the cultural 
and racial diversity of American society [including] women and minorities in 
other societies.”  Similarly, the State Board of Education’s approved Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines require “balance” and that it “validate 
students’ lived experiences,” and be “inclusive.” (7) 

The relevant Social Content Standards include (6): 

1.  Ethnic and Cultural Groups.  To “instill in each child a sense of pride in his 
or her heritage, develop a feeling of self-worth [and] eradicate the roots of 
prejudice:”  

2.  Proportion of portrayals. “must portray accurately, to the extent possible, 
the roles and contributions of a fair proportion of diverse ethnic groups.” 

3.  Religion. To “enable all students to become aware and accepting of 

religious diversity while being allowed to remain secure in any religious 
beliefs they may already have …without displaying bias toward or 
prejudice against any of those beliefs”  

Employing these required standards will produce an ethnic studies course 
that teaches students about the communities most likely enrolled in their 
schools. For instance: Palestinian-Americans, who comprise an estimated 3% 
(4) of California’s MENA population (7), are featured in the Arab American 
Studies course outline and mentioned in the Introduction as well as 
the Glossary.   Yet, the two largest MENA groups in California – Iranians, who 
comprise 26% (4) of California’s MENA population; and Israelis and Jews of 
MENA descent, who comprise 28% (4,5) -- are not mentioned at all. Also not 
mentioned are MENA Christians (Assyrian Christians, Coptic Christians, and 
non-Muslim Middle Eastern Christian) who also comprise a sizable portion of 
California’s MENA population.  

We ask that the California Department of Education consider the inclusion of 
lesson plans, or educational content, written by scholars from the following 
religious and ethnic communities; Zoroastrians, Coptic-Christians, Assyrian-
Christians, Mizrahi Jews, Baha’is, Yezidis, Iranians, and Kurds. 

 
 
We commend the California Department of Education and the ESMC writers 
and advisory committee members for their hard work and desire to provide 
our students with a high-quality Ethnic Studies curriculum.   

We stand ready to support you in developing this curriculum to provide 
accurate, balanced, high-quality content addressing our histories and cultures, 
as well as racism, justice, and equality, to empower all of our State’s students. 

Thank you, 

30 Years After 
Assyrian Association of Southern California 
Coptic Solidarity 
JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa 
Kurdish Community of Southern California 
Los Angeles Baha'i Center 
Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans 
Zoroastrian Association of California 

Footnotes: 

1.  Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, 
Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, West Bank and Gaza, 
and Yemen. 

2.  https://www.worldbank.org/en/region/mena/overview 
3.  ESMC Chapter 2, pages 237 and 275. 
4.  2018 US Census Data, People Reporting Ancestry. 

https://bit.ly/2YeEDAh 

5.  Berman Jewish Databank, US Jewish Population, 2018 (with MENA 

Jews accounting for an estimated 25% of California’s Jewish 
population) https://bit.ly/3hGTqvl 

6.  Content Standards https://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/cf/lc.asp 
7.  ESMC Guidelines. 

https://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/cf/ethnicguidelines.asp 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
