From: Rachel Reinhard   
Sent: Tuesday, September 10, 2019 10:35 PM 
To: Tony Thurmond; Superintendent 
Subject: Continue the ESMC Writing Process 

California Department of Education  
1430 N. Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Honorable Tony Thurmond: 

September 10, 2019  

I am writing to express my deep concern and disappointment regarding your recent decision to terminate 
the effort to finalize a Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) for California’s students.  
Last summer, as part of my work with history teachers, I was able to convene a panel of long time Ethnic 
Studies practitioners, some of whom are on the drafting committee. The panel was a highlight during a 
week of learning for 30 Bay Area teachers who were embarking on establishing their own Ethnic Studies 
courses, or integrating Ethnic Studies pedagogy into their traditional H-SS course. Following the 
discussion, the conversation continued as participating teachers peppered the panelists with one on one 
questions, thanks, and awe. Aside from the radical honesty modeled by the panelists, or perhaps a clear 
result of it, I walked away with a deep belief that “Ethnic Studies is love,” a statement articulated by one of 
the panelists. 
The teachers I worked with last summer, teach in disparate communities across the Bay Area - urban and 
suburban, impoverished and affluent, consisting of students or color and others disproportionately white. 
But they all left the week of learning about Ethnic Studies with an understanding of the deep importance 
of engaging with their own positionality, developing relationships with community members, presenting 
counternarratives to students, studying moments of organized resistance, and creating opportunities for 
students to imagine a more just world. 
In Ethnic Studies, history matters. Given the long standing marginalization of the narratives of Native 
American, African American, Latinx and Asian Americans in the United States (the communities that 
founded the field of Ethnic Studies) and the overwhelming number of students of color in California public 
schools, the histories of these particular communities must remain the central focus of the 
field.  Consequently, while taking seriously specific comments and concerns to the public draft, we must 
recognize that expanding Ethnic Studies to include the histories of communities that over time have 
become white diminishes the overall impact of this effort.   
While there are tremendous challenges to the creation of a single resource that speaks to all of 
California’s educational communities, I urge you to protect the curriculum development process and to 
allow for this draft to be completed. Communities of color across California have fought long and hard to 
secure their place in our democratic society, and in our curriculum.  
All of California’s students deserve an opportunity to take an authentic Ethnic Studies course, and benefit 
from the tremendous academic and social value it provides for students of all races and ethnicities.  
Sincerely, 
Rachel B. Reinhard, Ph.D. 

 
  
  
 
