From: Marcy Winograd   
Sent: Sunday, September 22, 2019 6:32 AM 
To: SBE 
Subject: A Message to All Board Members 

*** NOTE: THIS E-MAIL WAS SENT FROM THE SBE CONTACT FORM WEB 
APPLICATION *** 

Title: Retired LAUSD 

Organization: Member, CTA, UTLA, Jewish Voice for Peace 

Comments or Questions: 

I was pleased to read in the Sacramento Bee that the CA Ethnic Studies curriculum is 
"back on the table" and that there was an outpouring of support for revising the draft as 
opposed to starting from scratch. Thank you for moving ahead with the ethnic studies 
curriculum, particularly in the face of intense pressure from those who may not 
understand the importance of stemming the high school drop out rate by offering more 
culturally relevant lessons. 

During the public comment period, I submitted extensive revision notes with an eye 
toward increasing student engagement and including lessons on antisemitism and 
Jewish contributions to social justice movements. 

As a retired English, ESL and government teacher and former LAUSD literacy coach, I 
support inclusion of debate over Israel/Palestine in the curriculum, with students reading 
diverse texts to formulate a position for or against a UC divestment resolution and/or an 
anti-BDS bill in a state legislature or Congress. Discussion of BDS should also 
encompass the domestic persecution of Muslim students who advocate for Palestinian 
rights. 

Some suggest that a discussion of BDS would be inappropriate because the curriculum 
should focus on oppression in the US, not on what is happening in the Middle East. 

We cannot, however, separate the two, for the Israeli occupation impacts us at home, 
not only in efforts to conflate antisemitism with antiZionism, thus defaming Jews and 
others who do not endorse a state defined by ethnic privilege but also because the 
boycott, divestment and sanctions campaign has resulted in suppression of speech 
here, both on and off campus, and the targeting of Palestinian and Arab-American 
students.  

Examples: 

#27 states pass anti-BDS legislation to suppress speech 

#Universities try to prohibit activism by Students for Justice in Palestine. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
# Canary Mission targets students and professors who espouse pro-Palestinian views--
compiling "dossiers on Palestinian rights advocates" and labeling them "racists, anti-
Semites, and supporters of terrorism." (Read "The Intercept") 

An ethnic studies curriculum should not only incorporate lessons on antisemitism but 
also Islamophobia, and any discussion of the latter warrants the inclusion of examples 
of persecution of Muslim students who advocate for equality in Palestine and participate 
in the BDS campaign. 

One of the reasons the domestic Black Lives Matter has endorsed the BDS campaign is 
because US police, post-911, are often trained in Israel in tactics that include: mass 
surveillance, racial profiling and use of force against protesters. African Americans, too 
often, find themselves on the other end of the Israeli-trained militarization of our police.  

"Most recently, militarized state violence was deployed against the Movement for Black 
Lives in Ferguson, Baltimore, and across the nation, where unarmed protestors faced 
police and the National Guard fully armed with riot gear, including armored vehicles, 
tear gas, stun grenades, rubber bullets, and semiautomatic rifles." (Deadly Exchange 
Report/Jewish Voice for Peace) 

Ultimately, the State can censor through omission or provide students with diverse texts 
to make up their own minds on an issue that permeates our national dialogue and 
campus life. In any event, shortly after graduating high school, students are bound to 
encounter this debate on a college campus, so it behooves us to teach them to think 
critically. 

I vote for inclusion of robust debate, including pro and con BDS, on Israel/Palestine, in 
the ethnic studies curriculum. 

I look forward to hearing your thoughts and learning more about next steps on revising 
the current draft.  

Thanks again for your commitment to offering a model ethnic studies curriculum to our 
secondary students. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
