David  P.  Dolson 
1348 3ih Street 

Sacramento, CA  95816 

September 23, 2019 

Yolanda Munoz, Member IQC 

Curriculum Frameworks & Instructional Resource  Division 

California State Dept. of Education, Suite 3207 

1430 N Street 

Sacramento, CA  95814-5901 

I was  extremely pleased to see several articles in the Sacramento Bee regarding the adoption of 

an  Ethnic Studies Curriculum by the California State Board  of Education.  Hopefully, the Board 

will be given  additional time to review this matter. I am  writing to you  because you were 

identified in one or more of the articles as  having a role in this project. 

I am  a lifetime educator, now retired, who has served in  many positions from classroom 

teacher to district director of programs; to consultant and  administrator at the California 

Department of Education; to teacher trainer at the University of San  Francisco and  as  advisor to 

bilingual-intercultural programs in  Latin America.  During my career, I specialized  in  research 

and  evaluation of multilingual, cross-cultural, and intercultural programs. 

Since it appears that efforts to establish  an  "Ethnic Studies Curriculum" are somewhat 

advanced, there may not be any feasible way for me to be involved personally; however, I 

would like to volunteer my services to any group associated with the project. 

In  addition, I would like to share a few pertinent concepts with you that I hope can  be advanced 

for consideration before the curriculum is finalized. 

I want to thank you for reading this communication.  Any ideas contained herein, which you 

feel will make a positive contribution to the ethnic heritage curriculum, may be shared without 

attribution.  If I can  be of any assistance in any way to efforts to establish high  quality ethnic 

studies programs, I would appreciate suggestions as to what steps to follow. 

>in~---

David  P.  Dolson, Ed.D. 

d_dolson@yahoo.com 

CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING AN ETHNIC STUDIES PROGRAM* 

Overarching Values 

Ihere are at least two overarching and  fundamental principles of any ethnic studies curriculum: 

. •  Each  person has a basic human  right to develop their own ethnic identity and this 

identity may change over time.  An  ethnic identity typically consists of a personal 

affiliation with one or more cultural, racial, national origin, language or life involvement 

groups. A person has a birthright to establish and  modify their ethnic identity according 

to their unique life experiences. 

•  Every individual has the right to have his or her ethnic identity respected  by others and 

every individual has the obligation to respect the ethnic identity of others.  When 

respect for ethnic identity is  not forthcoming, individuals should be capable of 

safeguarding his or her self-concept and the self-concept of others and  concurrently be 

prepared to promote prosocial, cross-cultural understanding by drawing upon 

knowledge and  abilities acquired as  a result of participation in the ethnic studies 

curriculum. 

Sample Aspects of Effective Implementation 

1.  Developing a healthy ethnic heritage identity is  a life-long process.  The school  program 

of study needs to be appropriate for students of all  ages  and  grade levels.  The 

curriculum for high school students should address expertise which will serve young 

people to continue their individual development beyond formal schooling and through 

adulthood. 

2.  There are unique challenges associated with the development of a wholesome identity 

for individuals from "minority" or marked groups.  For example, complications range 

from feelings of shame and  inferiority to concealment and  even  abandonment.  In other 

cases,  groups are neglected in the sense of being made invisible and  considered 

unimportant or unworthy by the larger society. Many persons from subordinated 

groups which experience differing levels of overt discrimination and  prejudice do not 

naturally develop the capabilities of either adequate self-defense or effective prosocial 

reaction. 

1 

... 

3. 

Issues faced  by individuals from the "majority" group are no less daunting.  Members 

frequently have a sense of belonging to the "normal" group which has standards and 

customs that should be  attained by minorities.  They not infrequently see themselves as 

"non-ethnic" and  do not recognize their European  ancestry nor have they entertained 

the idea of their own ethnic identity.  Often majorities sense discomfort in addressing 

ethnic heritage issues,  reckoning that they are just "natural" Americans.  Some  are 

burdened with guilt regarding the notion that "white" folks are viewed  as the 

protagonists of slavery and  genocide for which no apology nor redemption is possible. 

Equally important, many individuals from the mainstream group may not understand 

the individual and  societal ramifications of historic and contemporary racial  and  ethnic 

inequities in American society. 

4. 

Information regarding racial  and  ethnic groups is  a foundational element for healthy 

attitudes towards other groups as well as  one's own identity.  Schools need to consider 

carefully the priorities of which groups will be highlighted for in-depth study.  For 

instance, in the United States, the history surrounding Native Americans, African 

Americans, and  the immigrant experience are exceptional elements of our national 

history. Likewise, world events such  as the holocaust of World War II  and the genocides 

in Armenia, Cambodia, and  Rwanda  are iconic.  Another key factor relates to the size of 

any recognized  group in a particular school, community, region, or state. The curriculum 

should be flexible enough to allow incorporation of study associated with any group 

significant in  local history or contemporary circumstances.  Yet, the identity of every 

single student is important.  No one should be made invisible.  In  cases where group 

identity may be difficult to address collectively, the school should have strategies to 

address smaller groups and  outlying students and give every student the skills to find 

out more information about their own identity. 

5. 

In  addition to knowledge-based studies, experiences play an  essential  role in the 

development of a positive self-concept and  cross-cultural attitudes.  Observing that 

there are variations in  beliefs and  behaviors within one's own group as well as those of 

other groups is  an  essential insight. Whenever possible, carefully designed in-group and 

outgroup cooperative and  collaborative learning activities should be  utilized to:  (A) 

ensure inclusivity, (B)  provide practice in  using knowledge, and  (C)  afford authentic and 

meaningful cross-cultural experiences. Encounters should also include dialogue in a way 

that participants become secure when come upon differing points of view and the need 

to address uncomfortable subjects. 

2 

6.  For any ethnic heritage curriculum to be successful, teachers involved with the program 
must not only be skilled in  the relevant methodologies to facilitate their students' 
journeys of development and self-realization but also  must also  be comfortable with 
and  able to share suitable elements oftheir own identity--- how it was developed and 
how it has changed over their lifetime. Teachers must also  be competent in  reaching out 
to other sources of expertise, authenticity, and  differing perspectives. A fundamental 
teaching perspective in  ethnic studies is to ensure that the instruction does not glorify a 
particular culture; rank heritages one against another; or fail  to present as accurate a 
representation as possible.  Instructors need to have the courage to address 
misrepresentations of any group perpetuated historically or contemporarily by popular 
media, flawed scholarship, or oppositional groups (e.g.,  hate groups). 

*Developed  by  David  P.  Dolson,  Ed.D., September 2019 

Notes: 

1. 

I realize that at this late date that the curriculum  under discussion appears to be  limited to  high 
school students. It most likely would  be an impossible task to include grades K-8  but of course, 
the research absolutely supports school support for ethnic heritage study and  development 
from  early childhood. 

2.  Attempting to develop the perfect list of which groups/topics to be addressed is a fool's mission. 
The best that can  be done is to identify a minimum of groups/topics that should be  required 
statewide and  allow, encourage, and  even  require schools to  employ flexibility to include other 
groups of local significance or interest. 

3 

