SAA ~GLaz4

State Superintendent

of Public Instruction Scott Wynn
4168 Eastlake Ave.
SEP 3 20t9 Oakland, CA 94602

August 17, 2019

The Honorable Tony Thurmond

State Superintendent of Public Instruction
1430 N Street,. Suite 5602

Sacramento, CA 95814-5901

The Honorable Tony Thurmond,

| am very concerned with the three committee members tasked with writing California
high school curriculum as they have expressed sympathy or full support for the Boycott,
Divest and Sanction (BDS) Movement against Israel. The BDS. movement at its core is
anti-Semitic, according to the definition of anti-Semitism adopted by the U.S. State
Department and 31 other countries worldwide.

In addition, one of the teachers on the 18-member committee is a Palestinian activist,
who currently uses teaching materials:that utilize state-owned media outlets from Iran
and Qatar as source material.

Members of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus,.as well as various Jewish groups
have raised concern over the proposed curriculum for high schools, which is being
described as “blatantly anti-Semitic and anti-Israel.”

The three members of the.committee with a history of anti-Israel bias are Gaye Theresa
Johnson, Theresa Montano, .and Samia Shoman. Johnson and Montano have either

expressed sympathy or full support to the discriminatory and terror-tied BDS Movement.

Shoman, a Palestinian activist and California high school teacher, authored a history
curriculum on the Israel/Palestine conflict. Her five-week course and supplemental
materials can be found at the KARAMA Arab and Islamic World Information Project.
The teaching materials from Shoman are absurdly slanted ‘to the point of
propaganda. Some of the curricula documents utilize state-owned media outlets from
lran and Qatar as source material.

The Qatar Foundation International (QFI), a US-based member of the.Qatar Foundation
(QF), promotes Shoman’s anti-Israel curricula through their teaching web portal Al-
Masdar. QF is an.arm of the Qatari government, founded and led by top Qatari

Officials. QF is also committed te promoting the Islamic teachings of Muhammad al-
Wahhab, the founder of “Wahhabism,” a radical form of tslam.

Wynn SZ 8

—
QF is also linked to the International Institute of Islamic Thought, a.U.S. Muslim
Brotherhood front group linked to Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Qatar has come under criticism for their funding of U.S. schools. Based on figures
provided by the Department of Education, since 2012, Qatari entities have given close
to $1.5 billion to U.S. universities in the form of monetary gifts and contracts.

QFI currently provides Arabic language program grants to 22 primary and secondary
schools throughout the United States.

The California high school new anti-Israel curriculum is currently going through public
comment before board approval. next year. Passage of this curriculum could mean an
increase in Qatar’s involvement with primary and secondary schools throughout
America as well as American. children being taught blatant anti-Semitism. This needs to
be stopped immediately.

Sincerely,

Scott Wynn
