P2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Chapter of Model 
Curriculum 

Chapter 3 Coarse 
Goals 

Your Name 
and 
Affiliation 

Michael 
Brandon, 
Historian 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Ethnic Studies is extremely important for students to gain a better understanding 
of their fellow classmates different cultures and histories. The proposed course  
has muddled and diluted ethnic studies into a catch all ethics & morality class.   

“explore a diverse set of narratives and primary sources across race, ethnicity, 
class, gender, sexuality, nationality and culture” 

Class, gender, and sexuality are important issues that should be studied in a 
different class/format. Including these topics within the course changes the entire 
purpose and learning dynamic for students. Rather than promoting understanding, 
the true purpose of this course, it’s creating resentment and public backlash at the 
perceived “liberal propaganda.” With a history degree focused on Meso-America, I 
understand the importance of ethnic studies. The study of history has opened my 
eyes to the world around me. The vast, interesting, and UNIQUE diversity of our 
country. Even I see the course outline as somewhat political and ideologically 
driven. 

The focus of a high school ethnic studies class should focus on various ethnic 
groups, history, culture, struggles/oppression, and contributions to America. This 
should include all the unique cultural groups throughout history that have have 

 
 
 
GENERAL 

America vs 
California  

Michael 
Brandon, 
Historian 

GENERAL 

Increase Public 
Support with 
Name Change 

Michael 
Brandon, 
Historian 

struggled for equality throughout history. Native-Americans, African-American, 
latinos, Asians, Irish, Italian, German (Amish), Middle-Eastern, etc.  

The course outline states the focus ethnic groups that have struggled in California 
but I believe that it should focus on the entire nation. Limiting the study to 
California limits the opportunity to compare and contrast how America evolved 
from a WASP nation to the country we have today; E Pluribus Unum, OUT OF 
MANY ONE. Including American history also provides a greater opportunity to 
compare and contrast ethnic groups across the history of our country. It will 
provide an opportunity to compare and contrast the oppression and struggles of 
ethnic groups in the 19th century vs 20th and 21st century. How some groups 
became more widely accepted, others were not, and the role skin color played.  
While unwarranted, the term Ethnic Studies seems to stir up a lot of animosity 
among certain demographics. The backlash is rooted bias and misunderstanding 
of the content of ethnic studies. Without changing the course content, a tweak of 
the course name to better describe the class like “American Ethnic Studies, 
American Cultural Studies, World Cultural Studies, Cultures of the World” or 
some other variation would temper much of the animosity towards the class. The 
fact that the course name creates animosity proves the importance and necessity 
of an Ethnic Studies course. Improving resistant parents opinions of the class will 
in turn make their children more willing to learn. 

GENERAL 

Virtual Cultural 
Exchange 

Michael 
Brandon, 
Historian 

The purpose of Ethnic studies is to promote student’s understanding of different 
cultures. Books and the classroom provide superficial facts and figures. True 
understanding comes from personal interaction with people from other cultures.  

VIRTUAL CULTURAL EXCHANGE 
Using existing organizations such as the Virtual Cultural Exchange or creating a 
new program that coordinate with High schools in other countries students would 
be paired up with a peer from another nation and culture. The Virtual Exchange 
Project would include set goals: 

●  Weekly written communication 
●  Monthly Skype communication 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
●  Assignments designed to promote interaction and learning between 

students and foreign peer: Peer biography, national/cultural report, day in 
the life video project, and various other assignments. 

●  Final joint project with foreign peer presented at the end of the year. 
Student would introduce peer to class with oral and video/slide show 
presentation. Peer would present project about California student to their 
class.  

The addition of one on one student interaction with students abroad will take 
lessons off the pages of textbooks and into the everyday lives of students. A 2002 
study of students who had participated in foregn exchange programs found “On 
average, 90% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed with the statement 
that study abroad influenced them to seek out a greater diversity of friends.”* 

While a virtual cultural exchange can’t provide the same experience as study 
abroad, weekly interaction with a foreign student will create an enriched learning 
environment and personal investment in the cultures they are exploring. It also 
has the potential to create lifelong friendships and help students see world events 
through the prism of those friendships. Rather than viewing world events as 
unimportant background noise in a far off place, students will begin to see 
the human impact of world events because of their personal relationship 
with a friend living in that far off place. 

*More Is Better: 
The Impact of Study Abroad 
Mary M. Dwyer Institute for the International Education of Students, 2002 
Page 158  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
