For decades now, we have reaped the benefits of the typical educations offered in almost all 
public high schools 
(starting at the primary grades, with teachers such as the much-celebrated Yvette Felarka, 
founder of the great,unifying, peace-promoting organization, BAMN)and continued to a great 
extent at almost all colleges nationwide, but most evident in our once-great state of California. 
We now have Antifa, rioting and violence at all campuses whenever a speaker or organization 
that challenges(whether it does or doesn't; the point is usually moot)their percieved dogma; this 
enough for assault, property destruction, on-line doxxing of families and anyone associated with 
the offending speakers or organizations, with attendant threats,death threats and terrorism. 
I have thoroughly examined your proposed ethnic studies curricula and found it to promote 
precisely the kind of divisions, class hatreds, socialism as infinitely superior to capitalism, and 
vilififation of American history and values as explemplified in all the discord,intolerance and 
violence found on far too many college campuses today. I thoroughly condemn and oppose this 
so-called "Ethnic Studies" curricula a thinly veiled poor excuse for indoctrination- education. It 
does nothing but promote all the evils aforementioned. It promotes no intelligent critical thinking 
skills offering different viewpoints supported by empirical evidence. It only offers PC left-
leaning, socialism-promoting, anti Judaeo-Christian values, agenda-pushing "social reform" and 
ethical nihilism. The only things that are important is "feeling good" about oneself and whatever 
distortion you percieve your world to be. 
The bottom line is, this proposed "ethnic studies" curricula stinks and does NOT belong in any 
public,taxpayer funded education system. I'm quite sure you can find private schools that would 
be more than willing to implement your agenda...surely there must be some leftist schools from 
K-12 that parents would be glad to pay to have their children attend.. 
I would imagine Silicon Valley, San Francisco, Sacramento and Los Angeles are teeming with 
PC leftist private schools that parents are pounding the doors to enroll their children. Go there 
with your "ethnic Studies". 
Keep this stuff strictly OUT OF TAXPAYER FUNDED PUBLIC EDUCATION. 
A California parent and grandparent, 
Marie DeLozier 

 
