Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 5 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 3 of 5 

OVERVIEW 
& LESSONS 

Angelica Gavilan 

After reading carefully the Introduction and Overview document, I would like to 
clarify the meaning of HISTORY, in my knowledge and understanding as a 
former student of History. First of all it is a word derive from Greek meaning “ 
inquiry, knowledge acquire by investigation”. So, based on investigation, 
gathering evidence and facts we could collect a valuable source of knowledge 
about past events. History is factual but subject to the subjectivity of some 
historians. That is why is so important to choose very well the material we could 
use to transfer this knowledge to new generations. As a teacher, I can have my 
very own opinion about an event BUT the role of an educator it is to transfer the 
knowledge to students as it is, a fact. The teacher’s opinion is irrelevant and 
unnecessary in the classroom. And when it comes to Ethnic studies, the function 
of the teacher is to give the elements of information, ALL of them, and then let 
the students analyze, evaluate on their own. If the students are instructed to 
focus on a topic in a specific way, giving preference to a certain side, this is bias 
against the other side. And unfortunately, that is what I see here. There is a 
continuous focus on people of color starting from page 1. And all the topics 
regarding different social issues affecting exclusively people of color. And this is 
not accurate. 
And on the other side, white people are to be blamed. General objectives look 
for making students advocate and be activists of people of color. Against white 
people? Against some of their own peers? And making white students feel guilty 
only for being white? From the text:” cultivate empathy, community actualization, 
cultural perpetuity, self-worth, self-determination, and the holistic well-being of all 
participants, especially Native People/s and people of color”. And :” critique 
empire and its relationship to white supremacy, racism, patriarchy, 
cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, ableism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of 
power and oppression at the intersections of our society”. So, which conclusion I 
can deliver with this last statement? Simply, that if capitalism is reprehensible, so 
which is the best economic trend to society? Socialism? I think we can read 
between the lines. Plus, the reference to a Program like YPAR, is looking to 
fabricate activists, it is not looking to enhance critical thinking skills but to involve 
youth in a certain political agenda. And the example given in the document is 
crystal clear:” For example, if students decide they want to advocate for voting 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 4 of 5 

rights for undocumented immigrant residents at the school district or city 
elections, they can develop arguments in favor of such a city ordinance and then 
plan a meeting with their city council person or school board member.” What 
type of example is this that promotes action against the nation’s law? 
Lessons are prepared in a way that the outcome is totally predictable. There will 
be no analysis different  from what the teacher expects and plans.  
And another example, in the chapter about “oppression and privilege that impact 
people of color”. “They should also emphasize the integral role of both white and 
oppressed groups in creating alliances, resistance, and resilience (including the 
positive contributions of the oppressed groups). White people do not contribute, 
right? 
Then when it comes to define some terms, there is a intentional manipulation in 
order to direct the youth opinion: “Privilege - unearned reward or advantage a 
person or group has by virtue of who they are, and not by any particular action.” 
But the reality is that privilege is :” an advantage or source of pleasure 
GRANTED to a person.” A privilege is granted not unearned reward. And a 
privilege is granted based on merit. So, these words are interconnected not 
isolated.  
Besides, when it comes to talk about African American communities and housing 
crisis in California, and states surreptitiously that this crisis mainly affects this 
community because of racism. This crisis affect the majority of people in this 
state and color has nothing to do with this issue!! 
And under this topic about African Americans there is clear speech against our 
law enforcement personnel. There is a clear objective stated in the key concepts: 
“Key Terms and Ethnic Studies Concepts: racial profiling, oppression, police 
brutality, social movements, resistance”. The goal is to set up a negative state of 
mind regarding police. 
 I could continue citing parts of this overview and lessons, but the bottom line is 
that this program looks for indoctrinate youth not to make them think, on the 
contrary, it is better if they do not think, analyze, question too much. This 
program search to fabricate future activists for a clear left wing political agenda. 
And the clear intention to spell some key words in a different and illogical way 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 5 of 5 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

(Hxrstory!!) shows clearly that this program is a continuation of the insane AB-
329. 
So, ladies and gentlemen, if you have taken the time to read my entire input,  I 
would like to  let you know that we, parents of California, are NOT ready to give 
up. We send our children to school in order to receive the necessary instruction 
that will help them be prepared to continue their studies at higher levels but NOT 
to be indoctrinated by an irrational, left wing agenda. 

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
