From: JIAC@betham. 

Dear Friends of Beth Am's Jewish and Israel Advocacy Committee, 
Please Jerry Hill do NOT pass this bill As a member for many years at Beth 
Am Los Altos Hills Calif I hope you will stop this in the Senate. It treats 
Jewish people with very bad comments and I am asking for your help to end 
this AB331 and make this acceptable to the Jewish community  
We are requesting your help in contacting State Senator Jerry Hill by 
Thursday afternoon. Please ask him to delay the vote on AB 331 (the bill 
that would make Ethnic Studies mandatory for California high school 
graduation) until next year. By then, we hope the problems in this Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum will have been rectified. Please call his office (916-
651-4013 or 650-212-3313), or email him (jerry.hill@sen.ca.gov) cc-ing his 
staffer Joan Dentler (joan.dentler@sen.ca.gov) on this issue. 
This bill, AB 331, has already passed the Assembly and is currently in the 
Senate Appropriations Committee. Jerry Hill is a member of this committee, 
which will vote on it on this Friday. Please call or email before this Friday. 
Background: 
As you probably know, a draft curriculum on Ethnic Studies was prepared for 
the State Department of Education. This draft was deeply flawed: it 
promoted BDS and an anti-Israel narrative, it fully excluded Jews from the 
Middle East and North Africa (as well as other significant communities such 
as Indian-Americans), and it promoted divisiveness not inclusiveness. 
Beth Am congregants sent over 200 emails to California Instructional Quality 
Committee (IQC), joining thousands of other Jewish and non-Jewish letter 
writers. The draft curriculum has now been condemned by the California 
Legislative Jewish Caucus, t 
1. Given what we have already seen, and given that we don't know who will 
be charged with rewriting the ethnic studies curriculum, it makes no sense 
to obligate the State to an unknown, potentially inaccurate and biased 
curriculum. 
2. We request that AB 331 be held until next year, so the model curriculum 
can be seen and approved before the vote requiring all students to study it. 
3. Please note that we, as a Jewish community, support the concept of 
teaching children about various ethnic groups, as a way to greater 
understanding and acceptance. We do oppose this first draft of the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum, which not only erases Jews and other specific 
communities, but also promotes division and intolerance. 
4. Let him know you are a constituent of his. We live in Los Altos and you 
are our senator. 
Thank you for acting quickly on this! 
Beth Am's Jewish and Israel Advocacy Committee 

Helene Lipton and Joanne Donsky, Co-Chairs 
Rabbi Janet Marder 

Maddie and Jeff Carmel 
Andrew Lipton 
Barbara Windham 

 
