Greetings, 

My name is Jack Lucas. I am a lifelong California resident and a former student of California 
public schools. I am writing to you because, while the public comment period on the ethnic 
studies curriculum has closed, I want to express my unequivocal support for the proposed 
curriculum and strongly urge the California State Board of Education to reject any changes to the 
curriculum, especially as it regards the portrayal of Israel. 

According to CalMatters, the proposed curriculum will teach students about, among other 
lessons, the compounded oppression that black women face in society, known as misogynoir; 
how discrimination against trans people, queer people, and non-men intersect in the form of 
cisheteropatriarchy; and the presence of Islamophobia in society. The most controversial point 
appears to be the characterization of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement, 
which the curriculum defines as a "global social movement that currently aims to establish 
freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions." Like other parts of the curriculum, 
this should remain unchanged.  

The BDS movement calls for a boycott of, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel and all 
companies and institutions with ties to Israel. This call arises from the conditions that 
Palestinians in the region face. For instance, on a single day in May of 2018, Israeli troops killed 
up to 60 Palestinians protesting at the Gaza border for the right of return to the land from which 
they were displaced. As an indication of the power imbalance, only one Israeli soldier had even 
been wounded up to that point. Last month, hundreds of Israeli troops demolished Palestinians 
homes and displaced families in order to build more settlements on Palestinian land. Just this 
week, the Israeli government announced it would ban two Muslim congresswomen, one of 
whom is of Palestinian descent, from entering Israel because of their criticisms of the country's 
treatment of Palestinians. The undemocratic and violent actions of Israel, like these, are the basis 
for the BDS movement and general criticism of Israel. The movement's main goal is Palestinian 
self-determination, meaning an end to the occupation of Palestinian land and the right of return, 
among other priorities. As the BDS website explicitly states, it opposes all forms of 
discrimination, including antisemitism.  

The lessons in this ethnic studies curriculum would be important in teaching California students 
about the challenges minority groups face in America and lead to greater understanding and 
appreciation of history, including Palestinian history. Palestinian students, just like Black, 
Latinx, and Indigenous students, deserve to see their history taught in school. The proposed 
curriculum's characterization of BDS and Israel is an accurate reflection of that history. While 
the Board has reportedly agreed to revise the curriculum as a result of the criticism it has 
received over the portrayal of Israel, I urge the members of the Board to reconsider and keep this 
curriculum as it is. 

Thank you for your taking the time to read this letter and for considering this view. 

Sincerely, 
Jack Lucas 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
