Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

[Enter Your Name] 

[Include the page and line number(s) here–Write your comment here] 

[Enter the agency, 
organization, or business 
that you represent, if 
applicable.] 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
[Enter the 
Chapter 
Number here, 
or just 
“General” for a 
comment that 
applies to the 
entire 
document.] 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
General 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Lisa Miller 

   I am writing to oppose the curriculum on Arab Americans that includes a 
reference to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction (BDS) as “a global social movement 
that currently aims to establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid 
conditions.”  As a parent of a senior high school student and a junior high school 
student, a former educator, and a Jew, I find this curriculum offensive.  I think it is 
a great idea to have students learn about other cultures through an ethnic 
studies course.  However, when you force students to learn things that are 
inflammatory, you encourage them and others to develop racist ideologies, and 
in this case, specifically, Anti-Semitic views.  I believe that is the exact opposite 
of what is your purpose in teaching ethnic studies. 
   In addition, the exclusion of any discussion of Anti-Semitism or the 
contributions of Jewish Americans to the state of California and our nation is a 
disservice to the future leaders you are helping to educate. 
   I ask that you reconsider the curriculum that you are proposing to remove 
discussions of BDS and include discussions of Anti-Semitism and Jewish 
contributions in America. 

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
