Pacific Islander Community Input on CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Gathered by the Support PI Studies in CA Campaign
Purpose
The purpose of this community assessment was to engage the Pacific Islander community in the development of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum process. Our goals were to:
- Raise awareness about Ethnic Studies & Pacific Islander Studies
- Gather community/constituent input on Model Curriculum &
Pacific Islander Studies sections
Methods
Support PI Studies in CA Online Petition
As of 9/30/2020
Talanoa on Pacific Islander Studies in CA
2 Community dialogues held virtually
3,352 Responses/ Signatures
111 Total participants
126 Comments
Location of signees
■ Northern California (41%) 
Southern California (22%)  
Central Valley (4%)
US (Outside of CA) (30%)
International (3%)

Roles of participants
•	CA Student (K-12 & College) (30.28%) 
• Pacific Islander Community Member (27.46%)
•	K-12 or Higher Ed Faculty or Staff (16.2%)
Parent or Family member of a CA K12 student(s) (15.49%)# Ally or other (10.56%)

Key Learnings
There is overwhelming excitement and committment to ensuring Pacific Islander Studies is included in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
"I think the curriculum is amazing. From what I remember from US History in high school, the section on Hawai'i was brushed over. I like the different worksheets, especially the one about the Bikini Atoll. The curriculum is very eye opening to the true actions of American Imperialism. I am sad it was removed.”
"I am not an Instructor which can be challenging for me to give feedback on the Curriculum. However, it did have some essentials that we can start teaching our kids. Specifically the US relations with the PI group and the impact from the beginning and until now. I think you all captured the most recent and important details that we can start teaching our kids.”
'As a member of the Pacific diaspora in the mainland US, I deeply resonate with a feeling of disconnect and misunderstanding of my ancestors. Everything I've learned about my culture was passed down through my family. I never once had the opportunity to learn about my people in a classroom setting throughout my 12 years of school between kindergarten and high school. The only explanation I can assume as to why this is the case is that the public school system in the US does not want to acknowledge the death and destruction that occurred in the Pacific Islands because of colonialism. This act of hiding the truth from any students but particularly Pacific Island students is unjust. We deserve the right to learn about our history in school along with everyone else..
Centering Pacific Islanders in the content and process of building curriculum is important. The community is eager and deeply committed to engaging in the next steps and implementation.
“The curriculum should uplift indigenous worldview to build solidarity w/other indigenous communities”
“Inclusion of Micronesian studies into the larger PI studies”
“Ethnic studies will eventually be a core component of curriculum and ensuring that the PI Studies model remains authentic and continues to be from the community is important. It is my hope that our Pasefika educators and Education leaders stay invested despite the barriers.”
“Curriculum as developed BY PACIFIC ISLANDER educators is adopted in full and investment/support provided for PI educators to train teachers statewide on teaching curriculum. (Because it can't just be taught any old way!)”
“Let's continue to drive what histories, narratives, literature are included in the curriculum.”
Solidarity with Arab American Studies is viewed as a strength.

“Being both Palestinian and Samoan, what stood out to me most was how Arab studies were also trying to push for these ethnic classes to teach more about our cultures. I believe this is so beneficial as working together makes more of a stronger impact than trying to do this by ourselves”
" in support of Pacific Islander Studies and Arab American Studies in California schools. Both are important parts in the American cultural mosaic. If left to the mainstream media to learn about Arab Americans, our students will get inaccurate information".