ASIAN LAW ALLIANCE
991 West Hedding Street Suite 202 San Jose, California 95126 Tel (408 ) 287-9710 Fax ( 408 ) 287-0864
January 20, 2021
State Board of Education
c/o California Department of Education
Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division
1430 N Street, Suite 3207
Sacramento, CA 95814
Dear State Board of Education,
The Asian Law Alliance (ALA) is a non-profit legal services organization located in San Jose, California. ALA mission is to provide access to the justice system to Asian and Pacific Islanders, immigrants and other low income residents.
ALA supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson
plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
"Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. ALA joins local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Thank you Sincerely,
Richard Konda
E>:ecutive Director
rkonda@asianlawlliance.org