From: Yuval Shchory Sent: Thursday, September 10, 2020 2:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Concerns
Dear California Department of Education,
My name is Yuval Shchory of Sunnyvale, CA. I have been following the changes in the curriculum when it comes to Ethnic Sudies quite closely and with much hope that the right decision will be made.
While I was happy to hear about the many revisions made to the Ethnic Studies Curriculum that removed antisemitism and BDS, I'm concerned to hear about the lack of transparency about an additional chapter added to the lesson plan. The protocol of allowing the public to review the curriculum and comment on it allows constituents to hold the CDE to its commitment against discrimination, as promised when revising the first draft. I ask that the CDE stand by its previous pledge to keep antisemitism and BDS out of the curriculum, and to open the additional sample chapter up to fair and transparent review prior to the closing of the comment period on September 30th. I'm also concerned about some of the materials of the curriculum, such as the use of the book, Education at War, as well as the misleading and harmful discussion of Jewish Americans attaining racial privilege.
My son goes to a California highschool. I myself am a son to a Holocaust survivor. I have almost no relatives from my father's side left, as they were murdered during the Holocaust since they were Jews. Thankfully, my grandfather fled with his family back in 1933, leaving all of their belongings behind. My heritage is of Jewish ancestry, a race that has suffered probably the utmost ugly side of racism and racebased pain. As a father, my foremost concern is that my son would have to attend a class where he will be regarded as a person of a racial privilege - what usually is bound with oppressing and using any such privilege, if such exists, against other races -exactly what my son's family suffered from, and not the other way around.
Please make these changes and make it a curriculum that everyone can learn from without fear of discrimination.

