From: Matthew Greenberger Sent: Friday, September 11, 2020 2:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum classifies Jews privileged and seeks to erase our ethnicity and ignore the very real violence faced by our community on a regular basis in current day California.
Just last week, hate groups hung banners on the 405 freeway in LA stating that Jews want to start a race war. There was minimal press coverage outside of Jewish oriented sources. https://www.cair.com/press_releases/cair-la-condemns-anti-semitic-banner-hung-fromfreeway-overpass/
People were murdered for being Jews in a San Diego area synagogue just last year https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poway_synagogue_shooting
You are sponsoring a curriculum that states that I am white enough to be privileged, and yet there is no acknowledgement that Jews are harassed out of local college campus leadership for not denouncing Jews in the middle east https://www.standwithus.com/post/standwithus-condemnsantisemitism-that-led-to-usc-student-leader-s-resignation. What other group is asked to denounce part of their identity as a litmus test just to be allowed to be part of a local student organization. Can you imagine if black students were harassed out of a California student government position unless they renounce Farrakhan or strongly condemn calls for slavery reparations? Must Catholics denounce the entire church and religion or be harassed out of student government as being "complicit" in child abuse?
Anti Jewish acts of harassment and even direct violence and murder are occurring repeatedly right now in California. The state curriculum is appropriately trying to make people aware of microaggressions against "others", but you won't acknowledge anti Jewish harassment and even murder as signs that anti Jewish hate is a very real current problem in out state.
If our ethnic studies curriculum won't teach that Jews face violence and harassment in modern day California, it is a fatally flawed curriculum and contributes to training California students to see that hating Jews is a "safe" form of hate that will always be tolerated.

