From: Candice Chang Sent: Saturday, September 12, 2020 7:34 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Inclusion of Korean American Experiences in Ethnic Studies curriculum
Hello CDE,
My name is Candice Chang and I am a Korean American middle school teacher in Los Angeles. I remember growing up and learning about Black heritage - the slave trade and the long hard fight for civil rights. I remember studying Martin Luther King and valuing the lessons learned from standing up to injustice and believing in equality for all. I recall learning about the US constitution and memorizing the Bill of Rights and the words "all men are created equal." I remember learning about Cesar Chavez and farm worker rights. In all of these stories about the ethnic american experience, I learned about tolerance and how their stories built what America is today.
My daughter is in 3rd grade. And for her "famous person in history" project, she wanted to be Harriet Tubman. I thought that was a great idea. She listed other famous activists in history - Martin Luther King, Rosa Parks, and Ruby bridges - that she was considering. I questioned a bit why she didn't consider an Asian, specifically a Korean person in history. I decided to personally introduce my daughter to famous Koreans in Korean history. I wished I could find articles or writings on famous Koreans Americans but could not find any "heroes."
It's my understanding that Governor Newson is trying to introduce Ethnic studies into the K-12 curriculum. I feel that with Koreans making up such a large part of the Asian population, it be would advantageous to learn about our diverse community, beyond Koreatown and K pop -stories of the Korean immigration experience and it's 3 waves from 1903 until the present; America's influence over the Korean independence movement in 1919; the reasons that impacted Korean immigration to the US and also their impact on the American experience today.
Please consider including the Korean American experience in the K-12 curriculum.
Thank you for your time, Candice Chang

