From: Ruth Parker Sent: Monday, September 14, 2020 2:45 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Miss Iraq Slams Biden on Iran Policy
In this email is a video which explains how the textbooks which are created by the UN have become more radicalized over the last three years, and now promote not only the destruction of Israel but also the extermination of Jews wherever they live in the world. This is important information!!! ----- Forwarded Message ----From: Pulse of Israel To: [email redacted] Sent: Monday, September 14, 2020, 01:44:00 PM PDT Subject: Miss Iraq Slams Biden on Iran Policy
Miss Iraq Slams Biden on Iran Policy

Click here to watch: Miss Iraq Slams Biden on Iran Policy
Yesterday, Iran executed Navid Afkari, an Iranian wrestling champion, for the crime of protesting against the Islamic regime at a street protest.
Democratic nominee Joe Biden tweeted against Iran's action, but Miss Iraq was quick to highlight Biden's hypocrisy, placing the blame squarely on Biden, and Obama, for empowering Iran during their administration.
Miss Iraq's tweet puts a spotlight on the fundamental difference between President Trump's Iran policy and the Obama/Biden policy, that would return if Biden gets elected.
As Iran remains a major destabilizing force in the Middle East to the whole freedom-loving world, everyone who will be voting in the upcoming 2020 elections should watch this video to better understand.

[donation solicitation redacted]
The United Arab Emirates Deal: Stop Funding the Education of
Genocide Against Israel

Click here to watch: The United Arab Emirates Deal: Stop Funding the Education of Genocide Against Israel

Here is a critically important interview with a totally different perspective

on the United Arab Emirates deal with Israel, not seen or heard

anywhere

else.

David Bedein, the Director of the Nachum Bedein Center for Near East Policy Research, closely follows the anti-Israel educational materials of the Palestinian Authority. Guess who gives major funding towards these educational materials? The United Arab Emirates.

This historic deal with the United Arab Emirates is the perfect

opportunity to put a stop to this. Find out the details of what this is all

about and how you can stop this UAE funding of genocidal education

against

Israel

and

the

Jews.

Please share this video and get all your friends and family to take the simple steps that David mentions. If we all follow through we can stop this!

Misunderstandings of 9/11 Still Plague America Today

Click here to watch: Misunderstandings of 9/11 Still Plague America Today
I remember 9/11 as if it was yesterday when I was living and working in New York City. Unfortunately, not only is the world NOT a safer

place since 9/11, it is considerably less safe today.
Unfortunately, even the United States of America still hasn't internalized the ultimate purpose of the 9/11 attacks and it still plagues America today.
In memory of all those who were murdered that day, and in tribute to all the first responders who showed humanity that not all supernatural heroes come with capes.
Please help share this video with everyone you can in their memory and tribute.
Pulse of Israel is a project of the 12Tribe Films Foundation. We rely on the generosity of our supporters to produce and promote our videos to cut through the noise and influence public
opinion by amplifying the truth about Israel and the Jewish people.

