From: Ruth Parker Sent: Saturday, September 12, 2020 2:48 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Indoctrination video of fifth grader raises red flags ~ Pelosi torched ~ Trump spots new conservative `star' ~ Your Conservative News Today
That indoctrination of students by teachers and professors occurs on a daily basis, and the idea that it can be prevented by the "guardrails" that the ethnic studies curriculum committee has put in place is absurd. If you google the American Associatioon of University Professors (AAUP) Statement of Professional Ethics you will learn that professors are expected to "avoid any exploitation, harassment or discriminatory treatment of students. Clearly Dr. Abdulhadi violates this code in every lecture. Also, "When they speak or act as private persons, they avoid creating the impression that they are speaking or acting for their college or university." When President Lew Wong tried to distance the SFSU from Dr. Abdulhadi's repeated statements that Zionists are not welcome on this campus she responded by saying that he had "declared war on Arab students." In her support of BDS she creates the impression that her views do represent the university. Her violations of the professional code of ethics are abundant and the university and the CSU are responsible for allowing her to continue unabated in fostering the reputation of SFSU as the most antisemitic university in the US.
----- Forwarded Message ----From: BPR daily PM To: "[email redacted] Sent: Saturday, September 12, 2020, 01:30:19 PM PDT Subject: Indoctrination video of fifth grader raises red flags ~ Pelosi torched ~ Trump spots new conservative `star' ~ Your Conservative News Today
View this email in your browser
`A star is born!' Trump retweets young, black American giving Dem Party the business
Minn Police Assoc. pulls Dem support after BLM supporting candidate beats effigy of police union prez

Video showing outrageous indoctrination of 5th grader reportedly being scrubbed, sparks fierce reaction
`Request denied!' Independent Sen candidate blows off moderator and takes debate on a wild ride
Lou Dobbs: If Barr doesn't produce deep state indictments Trump should declassify everything
Bill Maher rips media for defending riots, warns Biden will wear looting `on his back into the election'
Pelosi torched by Bret Baier, others after claiming Trump-negotiated peace deals nothing but COVID `distraction'
Journo under fire after announcing investigation into Utah Jazz coach's donation to black GOP candidate
`Maybe Netflix would like to come talk to Congress': Sen. Josh Hawley calls on removal of `Cuties'
Cocky abortion doc who flaunted job in the most horrific terms gets licensed suspended
David Limbaugh: Here's why I believe Trump will win

Kenosha protester who was shot in the arm cries as he tells his side of story: `I was there to
Kenosha protester who was shot in the arm cries as he tells his side of ...
The 22-year-old Kenosha protester, who had part of his arm shot off after confronting Kyle Rittenhouse while hol...
help' [advertising content redacted]
Tucker shreds Dems for exploiting wildfires: For them, `climate change is like systemic racism in the sky'
Idaho Dems sue to kick Kanye West off ballot, cry foul over party affiliation
Half of all 2019 donations to ActBlue came from `unemployed' donors who are untraceable: Report

