From: Maayan Cohen Sent: Sunday, September 13, 2020 8:57 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Comments
Dear education committee,
My name is Maayan Cohen and I live in menlo Park California. I'm writing to you as a deeply concerned parent, an Israeli-American California resident, and as a Jew living in this amazing state.
The new Ethnic studies curriculum has multiple disturbing components which we need to fix imminently.
1) The chapter about American Jews presents us as a privileged minority when in fact Jews in America has always had and today more than ever - have the highest rate of hate crimes directed at them including murder.
2) The new chapter planned to be added about the Arab-American is incredibly important but given that many of the participants writing it are BDS supporters that actively promote hate speech against Israelis and Jews, it is very disturbing that it's not exposed to comments and is being passed behind the scenes with no ability for the public to comment on it. We all need to make sure there is full transparency in writing all chapters of the curriculum in order to make sure California would never educate anyone to hate. Let's work together in transparency to promote inclusion and not hate against any populations.
3) We should also ensure that in such sensitive topics we provide clear guidance to teachers and not let them interpret things based on their personal political views, news, or even fake news they might run into. A teacher in one of the schools here just thought her class on 9/11 that the attack happened because of the US support in Israel. Is that what we want our education system to teach our children? Just like we won't ever allow our education system and specific teachers to promote anti LGBTQ opinions, we should NEVER let specific teachers promote anti semantic or Anti Israeli opinions, that can put the Israeli-American residents of California at risk. The suggested curriculum puts me and my family at immediate risk for hate crimes.
I would appreciate your help addressing the deep concerns of my family and our community before it's too late. Thank you for your consideration, Maayan Cohen
Sent from my iPhone

