From: Ruth Parker Sent: Wednesday, September 16, 2020 11:16 AM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Thank you for signing JIMENA's Ethnic Studies petition!
That Jews whose history in the Middle East goes back more than 3,000 years should be excluded from Middle East Studies is a clear example of antisemitism. This addition to the Ethnic Studies curriculum seeks to correct this glaring distortion of the historical record. ----- Forwarded Message ----From: JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa To: "[email redacted] Sent: Wednesday, September 16, 2020, 10:22:45 AM PDT Subject: Thank you for signing JIMENA's Ethnic Studies petition!
Having trouble viewing this email? Click here
September 16, 2020 27 Elul, 5780

Thank you for signing JIMENA's Ethnic Studies

Petition!

We'd like to thank you for adding your voice to JIMENA's demand that California's Department of Education (CDE) reject antisemitism. Our diverse coalition partners remain committed to pressuring the CDE to fairly represent Middle Eastern communities in California, to teach our students about antisemitism in the United States, to uphold their promise of transparent public processes, and to draw clear redlines against BDS, antisemitism, and discrimination. We still need thousands to echo our demands so please be sure to encourage your friends and family to sign JIMENA's petition today. For more than a year, JIMENA has invested significant resources and energy into our sustained efforts to protect Jewish and non-Jewish students from antisemitism in classroom spaces. From building unique coalitions, to being the only Jewish agency to draft lessons on antisemitism specifically for California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, JIMENA's unique approach has been recognized and advanced by a number of Jewish agencies including Zioness, CAMERA, Stand With Us, Israeli American Council (IAC), American Jewish Committee (AJC), Progressive Zionists of California, and others. We are grateful for their support and we need your help today. Can we count on you to help us combat antisemitism in California's Department of Education? We ask you to please consider donating to JIMENA's Ethnic Studies campaigns today. Thank you and Shana Tova!
Stay Connected!
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter for more JIMENA!

Use the hashtag #jimenavoice to share photos, news, and ideas to our online communities
JIMENA's mission is to achieve universal recognition of the heritage and history of the one million Jewish refugees from the Middle East and North Africa and their
descendants. Our programs aim to ensure that the accurate history of Mizrahi and Sepharadic Jews is incorporated into mainstream Jewish and Middle Eastern narratives in order to create balance in attitudes, narratives, discourse, and negotiations about Middle Eastern refugees and the modern Jewish experience.

