From: Include Jews Sent: Thursday, September 17, 2020 7:55 PM To: GAD Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: PETITION UPDATE: Protect California's Jewish Students
TO: The California Department of Education
The include jews petition now has over 4,789 signatures! It is time for the department to take action to protect Jewish students on campus.
We are joining the call for meaningful inclusion of Jewish Americans in the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
The removal of denigrating content from the initial draft and the addition of an acknowledgment that antisemitism is a form of hate is laudable. However, if this curriculum is going to be effective and appropriate for all Californians it must be truly inclusive, and that includes representation for the experience of Jewish Americans and the broad spectrum of diversity within the Californian Jewish community. Limited references to the Holocaust in history classes simply do not suffice.
Jews are an ethnic group that has historically faced intense discrimination and genocide, and Jews remain targets of hatred from the far left and right today. There are groups in the United States and California that seek to erase the Jewish experience from the history books, deny Jewish ethnic identity, and eliminate Jews. Antisemitic incidents and violent attacks have only increased in recent years. To exclude these facts from consideration in a curriculum for all Californians is unacceptable.
Additionally, Jewish Americans are diverse. Approximately 15 percent of Jews are people of color and people from the Middle East and North Africa. If the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is to be expansive in its inclusion of ethnic groups, then the Jewish American experience must be included.
That is why we are calling for:
1) The inclusion of a meaningful definition of antisemitism.
2) No return of the derogatory language about Jews, Israelis, and Israel, with guardrails in place to keep such language out of the classroom in the future.
3) The addition of a sample lesson reflecting the diversity of Jewish Americans.
Anti-Israel activists target Jews for discrimination because of our religion and our heritage but in reality, Jews are not responsible for the actions of a foreign nation on the other side of the world. Anti-Semitism is not free speech and should never be acceptable on campus.
Please act right away to protect Jewish students in California.

