The California Department of Education received 28 submissions that contained the language below. Other identical comments may have been posted separately.
From: mihwa lee Sent: Saturday, September 19, 2020 4:58 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Petition letter
Dear California Department of Education,
It is exciting to see that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is moving forward. I do believe that a required course in Ethnic Studies has the potential to improve cross cultural understanding and to address the racism that we are witnessing throughout the United States. While there are many diverse Asian groups in America, I believe the coverage of the Ethnic Studies Curriculum needs to be extended to include more Asian communities that live throughout California. I am particularly concerned that Korean American study has been excluded.
The Korean American community has long helped shape the American landscape through its community activities, its contributions, and more. For example, we can't discuss the 1992 Los Angeles Civil Unrest without including Korean Americans and the ethnic conflicts that arose during that period and how this contributed to the violence and marginalization of minority groups. It implies a significant lesson for unity and solidarity among minority groups. It was also a turning point for many Korean Americans to realize the importance of civic engagement. Korean American Experiences and Interethnic Relations would be a very powerful topic for California students to learn how to cooperate with each other in the diverse community of California.
Korean American community's presence, impact, and history are significant and an important part of ethnic studies education. To not include the Korean American community in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum would be to ignore a major part of California's and America's heart and soul. Thus, I firmly believe that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum should include Korean American studies in its Asian

American studies section. To leave out Korean Americans is yet again another marginalization and discriminatory action. Thank you for your time.
Sincerely,
Mihwa Lee Parents in Centralia School District.

