From: Steven Kolodny Sent: Monday, September 21, 2020 9:44 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC)
The California Department of Education (CDE) has been creating an Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). Originally there were questions raised about how Jewish people were being portrayed and they were going to try to correct that. I have learned that there is still work to be done in order to ensure anti-Semitic language and BDS are kept out and that the curriculum offers fair representation for all California students. I agree that it is important to educate the students about the multiple ethnicities that make up California and America, but I have read that what is coming is possibly antisemitic and anti Israeli. Jewish people have made great contributions to America and to California and this should be taught along with the contributions of other ethnic groups. Education is the best way to end prejudice and hatred. The consequence of not doing it are terrible. All we have to do is look at the 20th century with the Armenian Genocide, the Holocaust, Cambodian genocide, Kosovo, Rwanda, etc. Racial hatred does not have to reach the level of murder. Consider the treatment of the JapaneseAmericans during WWII. So education is important and the education should be honest and fair; not with an agenda to harm a particular group or ethnicity. If the education is a lie, it will be believed and harm will be done to innocent people. To quote Joseph Goebbels, Hitler's Reich Minister of Propaganda of Nazi Germany"If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it." The consequences of inaccurate teaching could be deadly. Please make sure that the ESMC is fair and honest to all ethnic groups including Jewish people. Hatred and antisemitism and antisemitic incidents are on the rise. There are more neonazi groups and racism and division in our country now. Education is the way to end it, not make it worse. Thank you, Steven Kolodny MD

