From: Betty Seko Sent: Tuesday, September 22, 2020 3:44 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Asian American Ethnic Studies - Public Comment
To Tony Thurmond:
It has come to my attention that the current outline of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum disregards the Japanese American, Vietnamese American, Korean American, and South Asian American groups from the lesson outline. I am also aware that the first draft of the curriculum had a Panethnic Asian studies which covered issues such as the Model Minority Myth. This is critical to our Asian American history, and to leave this section out would be a disservice to the children who don't understand what it means to be Asian American, despite being bullied and attacked by others for being Asian American.
Although you've spoken to the APISBMA advocacy group about this, and a positive conversation was had moving forward with the next draft of the outline, I want to use this email as a reminder to keep to your word.
Please pay attention to the Asian American curriculum in your Ethnic Studies proposal as to be more inclusive and include detailed lesson plans of each diverse group.
Thank you, Betty Seko
Ps.. Our younger generation of Americans need to know the full history of this country. My own children now in their 30s had to be educated by me with the help of the Japanese American Museum on the unlawful incarceration of their grandparents.
They had to learn on their own about the most decorated military group of WWII, the men of the 442/100 battalion and what their sacrifices meant to future generations. Not only Asian Americans but the families of the Lost Battalion that were rescued as well as the Jewish families that were freed from German concentration camps owe much to the men who sacrificed their lives (while their families were incarcerated in concentration camps in the United States).
How can you overlook teaching this part of American History and studies by not including it as part of your curriculum of ethnic studies? Where do your Ideas of justice and morals stand by disregarding the importance of the contributions made by all Asians to this country?
You have a chance to right a wrong. I hope you choose the honorable path to be inclusive and truthful.

