From: mark.saliman Sent: Tuesday, September 22, 2020 4:56 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: ESMC Public Comment To IQC
Dear Ethnic Studies Instructional Quality Commission<
I am deeply saddened to be writing this email. California, is the state where I was born, educated, and have lived for 95% of my life. The proposed curriculum is an attempt to institutionalize anti-Semitism. In my view, the members of the committees must either be anti-Semites, be completely ignorant of the Jewish experience in America or both. Personally, I have been discriminated against for being a Jew in most jobs I have held. Furthermore, throughout my public school education growing up in Modesto, I regularly encountered anti-Semitism leading to physical fighting on occasion. To even suggest that Jews received "privileges" is a fabrication of reality.
Particularly abhorrent to me are lines 186 and 187 of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum which states. "Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege". It is disgraceful that this statement is included as if somehow Jews have an unfair advantage when in reality it's the opposite. Such statements are concocted by anti-Semites and do not belong in any California educational materials. It's stunning to me that this statement has made it through multiple reviews. I am angry and ashamed that my State is proposing such anti-Semitic concepts be taught to students.
Additionally, I am joining the numerous calls for continued improvement of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Your removal of some of the negative content from the initial draft and the acknowledgement that antiSemitism is a form of hate is laudable. However, if this curriculum is going to be effective and appropriate for all Californians there must be a renewed commitment to transparency in every step of this curriculum's creation, added safeguards to what can be taught in this curriculum and have more inclusive representation for the experience of Jewish Americans and the broad spectrum of diversity within the Californian Jewish community.
That is why I am requesting for the following FOUR requests of the ESMC: 1) Accurately represent Jewish American experiences and teach about anti-Semitism 2) Ensure that negative language about Jews and Israel as well as BDS remains out of the curriculum 3) Include sample lesson(s) reflecting the diversity of Jewish Americans 4) Re-commit to transparency and the pre-determined process of writing the ESMC.
I appreciate your consideration to acknowledge the facts and revising the curriculum.
Sincerely,
Mark Saliman

Walnut Creek, CA

