From: Rancy Feldman Sent: Tuesday, September 22, 2020 4:21 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] AB 331
August 22, 2020
By electronic delivery only
Members of the Instructional Quality Commission
California Department of Education
1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901 ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
RE: Revised Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
I am a parent of three children who have gone through the public education system in California. My youngest son is currently a high school senior and is in the process of applying for college. I am writing to comment on the revised Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) released on July 31. My family and I wholeheartedly endorse the teaching of Ethnic Studies and we support Assembly Bill 331. Adding Ethnic Studies to California's high school curriculum will, among other things, foster respect between students and an appreciation for our state and country's rich and diverse population.
I wish to express my support for the removal of overt antisemitism and extreme and gratuitous anti-Israel bias from the revised ESMC draft. Unfortunately as a Jewish family, each of my three sons has personally experienced antisemitism in the public school system. We chose the public school system so that our kids would learn and play and grow in a culturally diverse environment. I feel strongly that students' backgrounds and differences should be honored and respected. My middle son, now a senior at UCLA, had the opportunity to travel to Israel as part of a delegation of mostly non-Jewish campus leaders to better understand the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He spent equal time with Palestinian leaders as he did with Jewish community leaders. My son is now minoring in Arabic and hopes to eventually work in diplomacy. Hopefully the final draft of the ESMC will include that spirit of cooperation and understanding, without negativity, so that our future generations will do a better job at embracing and honoring our diversity.
Best Regards,
Rancy Feldman

