From: Nora Rousso Sent: Wednesday, September 23, 2020 4:38 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Proposed ethnic studies curriculum.
Dear IQC:
I am very concerned about the proposed mandatory "ethnic studies curriculum," even as revised.
One example I found troubling in the revised curriculum is in Appendix B. There is a proposed lesson plan related to housing discrimination. And yet there is no mention of the restrictive covenants that existed all across America that denied Jews the right to purchase property in designated neighborhoods. As this lesson plan is currently drafted, students will (mistakenly) believe that only people of color ever suffered illegal housing discrimination. With the shocking rise of anti-Semitism in California, the US and the world, why on earth would you want to ignore this valuable shared legacy? It makes no sense.
I believe that the "proposed lesson plan" to "develop a lesson on the Arab American Experience" was "recommended" by Dr.Thurmond at the last minute to appease those who originally tried to include hateful, biased, rhetoric in the original curriculum, including propaganda about Israel, Jews, and the Palestinian cause but were thwarted. See: https://www.cde.ca.gov/nr/ne/yr20/yr20rel68.asp. In a somewhat obvious attempt to "bury the lead," this last minute recommendation was included with another recommendation to develop a lesson plan on the "Pacific Islander" experience and to claim that both qualify under the traditional "Asian" ethnic studies discipline, but that is wrong. Not all "Arabs" are "Asian." Just ask any "Arab" from North Africa. Not to mention the fact that some "Arabs" are "Jews." (JIMENA is an organization devoted to the cause of Jews displaced from various African countries, but we don't have any "proposed lesson plans" about them at the moment.) In addition, many other "ethnic" groups are excluded. Why?
Are you aware that one of the members of the original curriculum drafting committee (Shamia Shoman) (@shamiashoman) recently tweeted out a link to the "Muslim Grassrooots Movement" which warned that the CDE was going to "bow to the desires of a right-wing campaign?" See: https://act.newmode.net/action/mpower-change/take-action-save-ethnicstudies?sp_ref=663686518.392.203165.t.0.2. I do not know why this is being ignored.
I think that somehow the BDS narrative has been implicitly adopted in the revised curriculum even as amended. Therefore there still is an improper assumption that high school students should NOT be taught about Jews and the Jewish American Experience because "Jewish" is "religious" and not "ethnic," whereas teaching the "Arab American" experience is "OK" because "Arab" is "ethnic" and "not religious." This same narrative wrongly promotes the idea that all Jews are "white," which is how they "colonized" Palestine, whereas Arabs are "people of color." This same false narrative further allows those who repeat it to de-legitimize Israel and Zionism by saying that "anti-Zionism is not anti-Semitic." This is anti-Semitic, anti-Israel propaganda that has no business in a high school classroom and you are in danger of making a curriculum based on this hateful rhetoric a model for the entire country. Please don't do that.
Anti-semitism is on the rise in the US and abroad, even in California. See:https://www.tabletmag.com/sections/news/articles/smell-the-anti-semitism-america

High school students are capable of acting and promoting virulent, anti-Jewish hatred. See: https://www.jweekly.com/2020/09/04/school-officials-identify-marin-student-behindantisemitic-instagram-accounts/
Sadly, open Zionism and support for Israel caused a wonderful young lady to resign from her position as student body president at USC. Her "crime?" Support of Israel and her "open" Zionism: https://www.jweekly.com/2020/08/11/s-f-native-resigns-from-usc-student-government-overisrael-views/
There is only one way to foster greater understanding and to prevent such hateful behaviors: Education. Help teachers promote understanding, not hateful and one-sided political rhetoric.
Therefore I implore you PLEASE to p ledge to the following: 1. A sample lesson on Jewish Americans in Appendix B. 2. Addition of a lesson on Middle Eastern American Jews under the Asian American category in Appendix B. 3. Addition of a lesson on Middle Eastern Americans including Jews, Arabs, Iranians, and other large California ethnic communities under the Asian American category in Appendix B.
If you can't do that then please omit the "proposed sample lesson on the Arab American Experience."
Thank you. Nora Rousso Los Gatos

