From: Richard Sherman Sent: Wednesday, September 23, 2020 10:55 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Concerns : Dr. King & Congressman Lewis
Any legitimate ethnic studies program should emphasize the wisdom of Nobel Peace Prize winner Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the late Congressman John Lewis. Both men made clear that they understood that antiZionism is just another form of anti-semitism. In this regard I refer you the San Francisco Chronicle. In an op ed in January 2002 commemorating Martin Luther King Day, Congressman Lewis recalled the wise and prescient words of Dr. King spoken at Harvard a few weeks before his death: "When people criticize Zionists, they mean Jews; you're talking anti-semitism". Dr. King also said: "Peace for Israel means security, and we must stand with all our might to protect its right to exist, its territorial integrity. I see Israel as one of the great outposts of democracy in the world, and a marvelous example of what can be done, how desert land can be transformed into an oasis of brotherhood and democracy. Peace for Israel means security and that security must be a reality". I am concerned that after being pressured by organizations trying to restore BDS and antisemitism to the curriculum, the CDE has added a chapter that is not open to review. I welcome an Arab-American lesson, but not one guided by the hand of BDS radicals and hidden from the public. The protocol of allowing the public to review the curriculum and comment on it allows constituents to hold the CDE to its commitment against discrimination, as promised when revising the first draft. I ask that the CDE stand by its previous pledge to keep antisemitism and BDS out of the curriculum, and to open the additional sample chapter up to fair and transparent review prior to the closing of the comment period on September 30th. To not include the unequivocal teachings of Dr. King and Congressman Lewis concerning the linkage of antiZionism and anti-Semitism in an ethnic studies program is to present an ethnic studies program without a soul. Richard Sherman
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android

