From: Robert Jay Weinberg Sent: Thursday, September 24, 2020 4:16 PM
September 24, 2020
I object to the substance of and procedures being used to develop California's new ethnic studies program:
1. Prior versions called for students to be taught to take antisemitic actions, such as to protest the existence of or to boycott Israel, but Israel's neighboring states have committed generations of atrocities against Israel, against the Jewish people and against many other types of people (e.g., having brutal laws approving the death penalty to punish people for merely being homosexual), and many nations recently committed mass murders and other horrors inside and outside their borders, such as Iran, China or Russia, and hundreds of other nations fail to take the heroic steps that Israel regularly takes to introduce diversity and tolerance into the Middle East and to help other nations around the world--yet none of those nations which perform horrible acts around the world and which fail to help improve the world are targeted in these proposed ethnic studies programs-instead these programs just target Israel, the sole state dedicated to preserving Jewish life in the face of global antisemitism. This is a form of hateful intolerance and any laws authorizing new courses must require that our children would never be taught to attack Israel's existence, do harm to any Israeli citizens or the Jewish people, accept or promote any antisemitic beliefs--or object to any other nation's existence. Without this guarantee, these courses would hurt our kids and our state and not be justifiable.
2. Both the prior and latest versions of these courses seem to fail to teach students in any meaningful way about the centuries of racist discrimination that our government, as well as many businesses and private parties, practiced against the Jewish people. Leaving this history substantially absent from these courses is either an extraordinary oversight or a sign of outright prejudice, so the plans for these courses actually promote the very type of racism, insensitivity, ignorance, divisiveness and potentially violence that these courses were presumably designed to redress. I believe the

plans are for 13 years of courses about the struggles of many different groups--and the endless discrimination faced by the Jewish people must be included and not distorted for antisemitic purposes.
3. The most recent plans for these courses seem to call for Jews to be singled out (I believe along with Irish) as some sort of racially privileged group--and I believe course plans venture into areas as complex as teaching students about what it means to be "Jewish" or "white" and how Jewish students should understand their identity-although school teachers have no expertise in these areas. This is shocking, as the material being proposed seems bigoted, far from factual, and easily capable of being used to promote hatred towards Jewish students and the Jewish population. No group, especially religious groups that have been discriminated against historically, should be made targets for even more hatred or ridicule--and the parties creating these programs should give serious thought to the effect they would have on Jewish students if they were to see their classmates taught to view them in such an offensive and inaccurate way. Jews have been denied endless privileges accorded to other groups of people throughout California and U.S. history, and this should be a key focus within any teachings in public school courses about the Jewish American experience, instead of stigmatizing of Jews in public schools as a racially privileged group.
4. These courses have not been explained well to the public and people need more than 30-day periods to comment on such radical proposed changes in school programs--especially as the public is already overwhelmed facing challenges from Covid-19, raging wildfires, historic heat waves, riots and crime waves, etc.--so please open up public comment and give people a fair amount of time to respond.
5. There are no plans to test these radical new courses, but they should first be taught in just a few school districts for one or two semesters, so everyone could see how these courses are taught, see the good and bad effects on the students, and allow the public to come to the state's aid with constructive criticism, etc. This would be a much safer and less reckless approach.

6. Apparently California students would have to spend 13 years taking these courses, and courses like language, math, science, and creative and artistic and athletic studies would receive much less of each student's attention. This would limit the education of each student and should be reconsidered. Also, it's unwise to force these courses on students as young 5 years of age. The material being proposed seems dangerously like political propaganda, and studying these types of new courses at a high school level would allow students to have a safer and better skill set with which to approach such course material than teaching such courses to 5 year olds. Also, I've not seen anything written about whether the new ethnic studies courses would be graded--but if they would, I'd find it outrageous as students could have their grade point averages and future life prospects harmed if they simply disagree with their teachers' political perspectives.

