From: mayagiat Sent: Thursday, September 24, 2020 2:59 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Demend for transparency for our children's future.
Shalom, It has come to my attention that BDS organizations are trying to force the CDE to put antizionism, BDS, and antizionism back into the curriculum.
It has always been easy for BDS organizations to accuse and attack Israel for all the problems in the world. Everyone knows the reason why. Because Israel cares!!!!!!! I have never heard any accusations against Syria, Iraq, Iran, Jordan etc. Countries that on a daily basis violate human rights. These countries just don't care, so any criticism won't help. Israel was there, standing on the border with Syria to take care of the thousands of refugees who were fleeing for their lives. ( Where we're all the Muslim countries?????) Giving them food,shelter and medical care. Israel was there when Abu Mazen's ( head of the Palestine authority) wife was sick and needed medical care. She was admitted in an Israeli hospital in Tel- Aviv during the war in the summer of 2014. A war that was encouraged by Abu Mazen's himself. I wonder if the other way around would happen..... Israel was there when Ismail Haniya's, (the Hamas leader) sister was extremely sick and needed medical care. Again our enemy was admitted in an Israeli hospital in Tel- Aviv for humanitarian reasons Terrorists who explode themselves on civilians and get injured are admitted in Israeli hospitals. Terrorists in Israeli jails get food,medical treatments, family visits,food, studies and routine check ups. There are many more examples to show that Israel is the pearl of the world and especially in the middle east. The only democracy in the middle east, the only place in the middle east where people can say and write what's on their minds without being afraid of persecution. Israel is full of Arab doctors ( the head of the the Galilee hospital is an Arab), lawyers, judges, pharmacists, teachers,actors and so on. If you care about your, our children's future do include in your curriculum hatred, darkness and lies. I hope justice will come out to light. Maya.

