From: rachelle markovich Sent: Thursday, September 24, 2020 8:23 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Jewish and Irish Privilege?
Dear Ethnic Studies of CDE,
How dare you? How dare you offer such a class, especially at this time in our history? You ( and I intend this as the plural you) demand we come together and not be so divisive, do you clearly believe offering such a class as this will help the young population of this country? You blame the current leadership is inciting division, racism, antisemitism, white supremacy when it is our `progressive' education system that is teaching and inciting.
Let me tell you about Jewish Privilege... I am a proud Jewish woman. And I am a proud American, as are my children and my grandchildren. I am the product of Holocaust survivors who came with the clothes on their back and not a penny in their pocket. My husband was a Russian Jewish immigrant who came to the US, legally in the late 70s to escape communism and anti-semitism. No one gave us anything. He worked 3 jobs to save and build a life for us. Is that privilege? I think not! We both worked tirelessly to give our children a stable home life and education so that they may go off into the world -and do the same.
So what is privileged about that? Huh? The key is hard work, education, and strong moral values, treat others as you wish to be treated. I am not old, not by today's standards, but I feel old having to give you advice... the youth of today would best be served by giving them straight history lessons... unadulterated history lessons without all the side noise, without the teacher's opinions,. You want these young people to hear opinions? Then guide them to various editorials in newspapers of both sides... liberal and conservative. Without your opinions, they will be able to form their own opinions and critical thinking.
Please, I ask of you all... rethink the offering of such a class.
Respectfully submitted,
Rachelle Markovich

