From: [email redacted] Sent: Friday, September 25, 2020 1:48 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] You're anti-semitic anti-zionist curriculum need drastic changes
am writing to state that your revisions to the ethnic studies curriculum having no way met up to the promises at your committee and the governor assured us, the Jewish community and the Zionist community would be implemented. The lesson plan for instance disgusting The Immigrant experience of Irish American and Jewish American immigrants and their so-called racial privilege is actually racist toward these groups. As a Jewish daughter of a holocaust Survivor and myself a person of color, I have no white privilege. That lesson plan must be removed as just one example You plan to teach Nation of Islam? If you insist on doing so then you must also give the Jewish perspective and discuss how Louis Farrakhan calls Jews termites and admires Hitler calling him a very great man and discussed how destructive Louis Farrakhan is. Alternatively you could eliminate Nation of Islam from the curriculum which would be the intelligent thing to do. Why create divisiveness for no reason? Why would the black sensitivities come before insulting Jews? The Jewish community of California is not going to sit down and take this quietly. They didn't last time and they're not going to do this time. There is a Sinister effort going on behind the scenes that is pushing for an anti-israel anti-semitic content. Do not let this happen. Show us that you truly mean diversity and inclusion not at the expense of the Jewish Community. AR Jewish experiences in Arab lands that are not included in this curriculum that must be especially since you are including a subgroup of Arabs. That would include the Arab Jewish Community who is expelled from the Arab lands. You ignore them along with other ethnic minorities such as the Persians, Kurds, and Assyrians. These minorities are also present in California and are every bit as much as racial subgroups as Arabs are. Include is all or donuts with any of us including the Arabs and the Native American. Because in reality they're really are only three core groups of races and that would be black Asian and Caucasian. You can't have it every which way you want at the exclusion of Jews and other minorities or else you show your hand which is we want to push a certain agenda and that would be pricing for The Underachievers. Somehow you seem to equate those who did not achieve with not having the chance to. And those who achieve suddenly earned the status of white privilege. However because the Asian population is so large in California, you knew you could not get away with excluding one of the three major ethnic races. They are Achievers and they will be studied, but nowhere near the attention that will be given to the black experience. Just need to put blacks and people of color first need to include then Jewish experience in the Middle Eastern lands because they are people of color. And in general when discussing ethnic studies you need to include Jews as a race if you are going to use them as an example of their so-called white privilege. They are a minority and according to your own words a racial minority at that. And treat them as one and they need to be treated as differentially as the other ethnic minorities that are being politely and respectfully put into the curriculum.

Until you do so I look with great discomfort to say the least at your newest revision. Change it please before it's too late and California becomes a hotbed of anti-Semitism anti-zionism and ultimately boycotting Israel yet again even though you claim you were moved to BDS. It will lead to that and much worse as far as high school students who are Jewish feeling unsafe in their schools. You are not really all about inclusion until you include Jews, who barely survived the worst genocidal attack in the history of mankind, because Hitler viewed them as a sub part race. You owe it to the Jewish experience in California to have high school students study their history and their contributions to California. You could spend an entire semester studying just about the Holocaust and make that a mandatory class that would get the needs of an ethnic studies curriculum class. You could even focus on the Jews of Greece Yugoslavia and even North Africa who were affected by the Nazis. And you cover Jews who were minorities and persons of color. Checking all the boxes. To ignore their experience is beyond insulting to our Jewish history. In fact you are canceling it. Show us that you care about the Jewish experience in California. Thus far your revisions are woefully lacking to say the least. You're anti-Semitism and anti-zionism continues to shine through, sadly. Esther Kandel Los Angeles

