From: Laura Jones Sent: Monday, September 28, 2020 11:03 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment regarding Appendix A. Unit 6
This comment is in reference to the following:
Appendix A. Unit 6: Irish and Jewish Americans: Redefining White and American
"Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege."
My Comment:
I do not agree with this being taught in our schools and asking students to write a paper about how Jews have "racial privilege." This is misleading and implies that Jews have had it better then others, which we know is not the case. My grandparents literally had everything taken from them and came to America with not a penny to their name. They worked for everything they had.
If we are going to be teaching our kids about other faiths and ethnicities, we need to be teaching the facts about their history, not perception and bias. The phrase "Jewish Privilege" is a popular phrase circulating right now that is the base of whats creating an influx in anti-semitism. I am all for teaching about "privilege" in schools and what that means, but we should not be pigeon holing Jews or any other religion into that concept. The Jewish faith is made up of all sorts of races from all different social classes.
My suggestion would be to teach the history of Jews and the events that have taken place over the years that they've had to overcome simply because of their faith (i.e. the holocaust, synogauge shootings, etc) Teach the students what it means to be Jewish so they have a clear understanding of who they are their beliefs. Racial bias and antisemitism comes from being uneducated about others and the fear of the unknown. If we stick to the FACTS and HISTORICAL EVENTS, educating our youth about others, maybe we could break down some of the barriers and bias. But implying that Jews have privilege will only create more hate and a divide.
I strongly oppose this being taught in public school.
Thank you,
Laura Jones

