David A. Berkley l9 Kingsway Drive Ladera Ranch, CA92694
3 10.882.8389
david.berkley@gmail. com

September 29,2020

Via Email Onlv

Members of the Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education

1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-590i

ethnicstudie

ca.gov

RE: Revised Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
As a parent of three young children in South Orange County (ages 2, 5, and 7), I write to offer this public comment on the revised Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) released on July 31 and amended in August 2020. In short, my concerns are as follows:
1. Exgansion beyond the original four groups of ethnicities. To the extent the
ESMC will include curriculum beyond the original four groups (African Americans, Asian Americans, Native Americans and Latinx) and add modules for both Pacific Islanders and Arab Americans (as indicated in the Commission's August 12 amendment), any final ESMC must also
contain a discussion regarding Jewish Americans. Moreover, a lesson plan on Jewish Americans must also recognize the diversity of the community including Ashkenazi, Sephardic, Mizrachi Jews and Jews of color. Additionally, a lesson plan on Arab Americans should also refer to Jewish Americans of Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) descent.
2. An accurate definition of antisemitism. The final ESMC must include an accurate
definition of "antisemitism" such as the definition used by the Intemational Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance - which the u.S. state Department adopted in 2010.1
3. Inclusion of lessons about antisemitism. The final ESMC must actually include
lesson plans which directly discuss antisemitism in America. Over the past few years,

I "Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or nonJewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities."
) (S e e http s : //www. s t at e. gov/ defi ning- ant i - s e mi t i s m/.

antisemitism has exponentially grown throughout California and the United States and we must address this issue with our students.

4.

Transnarencv anrl an onnortunifv oublic comment in all ohases of the

development of a final ESMC. Before adopting a final version of the ESMC, the public should

be given sufficient advance notice to provide comment and debate. The Commission's decision

to amend the curriculum on August 12,the day before the last public hearing on the issue, was

not acceptable.

Very truly yours,

David A. Berkley

