From: Ruchama Chana Makover Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 4:48 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Concerns
Dear CDE,
It is important that you take into consideration some facts before presenting the curriculum as had formerly been promised to leave out. The Jewish people are one of the smallest ethnic groups and nations in the world. To liken our history to the history of Irish American people is ludicrous. To avoid presenting an unfair Ethnic Studies Curriculum, there must be no political issues brought up and presented as a part of someone's ethnicity, particularly BDS supporters.
The continued and increasing acts of violence against our people, judging us because of the clothes we wear and nationhood going back thousands of years is as atrocious as any discrimination do to the color of one's skin. Incidentally, a complete representation of our people would show that there are large numbers of the Jewish people who come from African and middle-eastern countries that are similar in appearance to Africans, African Americans and Latin Americans.
As a former teacher in various levels of education, elementary, middle school and University, I am appalled. These studies will be almost exclusively the only studies that our students who are not part of the ethnic groups presented, future business owners and administrators, people in higher education and future political leaders will be exposed to. It is crucial that our future generation is presented with information about our ethnic group as well.
This is really a crime if a whole group of people are misrepresented or left out altogether. Other ethnic groups, like those with an Asian background have also succeeded to the extent that they have because learning has always been an integral part of their culture as well as our culture. An ethnic group should not be left out because of the hatred of other ethnic groups.
You promised that you would keep antisemitism and BDS out of our school curriculum. However you're consulting with organizations who openly state they want to restore the old hateful and politically biased curriculum. On top of that, you've inserted a chapter, in cooperation with groups that want the old version, that has been made unavailable to the public. I demand transparency and that you recommit to keeping BDS and antisemitism out of our schools.
Sincerely,
Ruchama (Danit) Makover

