From: Dave Rapson Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 10:51 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [Emails Redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Comments
We Jews have been persecuted throughout history. We have been singled out and scapegoated for the ills of the World for thousands of years. Many people have heard of the Holocaust but few know about or consider our exile from our homeland in what is now known as Israel, our enslavement by the Egyptians and Romans, the creation of ghettoes in Europe to keep us from the general population, the Spanish Inquisition and the forced conversions to Christianity, the blood libels, the Dreyfus Affair, and the forced expulsion of millions of Sephardic Jews from Arab countries, to name a few atrocities. We continue to be singled out and held to a different standard to this day.
Anti-semitism is growing unchecked in today's society, especially among white supremacists and the BDS movement. Our schools are breeding grounds for it. The proposed ethnic studies curriculum is one more manifestation of this illness. It pays virtually no attention to Jewish history and anti-semitism. It's also loaded with false narratives which promote BDS and are anti-Zionist and anti-Israel. We are portrayed in the curriculum as privileged members of American society descended from Europeans. That is a grossly false stereotype and is part of the insidious storyline that is used by the BDS movement (including many anti-Zionist Jewish members of that movement) to promote BDS and anti-Israel hatred.
The proposed curriculum must be re-written to (1) remove the ignorant and hurtful anti-Israel sentiment, (2) include a more comprehensive and accurate discussion of Jewish history, and (3) exclude ant-semitic rhetoric and content promoting BDS. One of the great ironies of all this is that Jews and Israel are portrayed as oppressors when we are among the most oppressed and the most staunch supporters of other oppressed people.
Thank you for hopefully doing the right thing and promoting righteousness in our schools.
Dave Rapson

