Susan Hayase [address redacted], San Jose, CA 95112
email redacted]
September 28, 2020
Re: PUBLIC COMMENT on Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Tony Thurmond (or any addressee at the CDE),
It has come to my attention that the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum, in regards to the Asian American section, has failed to include a detailed history of the Japanese American community. The current draft of the curriculum outline has reduced the Japanese American experience down to one bullet point on page 91. This is unacceptable. The Japanese American community has been an integral part of California history; from the farmers who made the "unfarmable" land flourish with produce, to the activists who challenged the supreme court against the incarceration of 120,000 people based on their race.
Part of the result of the Japanese American redress bill, the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 was the mandate to do public education about the circumstances that caused the forced removal and indefinite incarceration of Japanese Americans. The Civil Liberties Public Education Fund took that to heart and many educators around the country helped to develop high quality curriculum that addressed the civil liberties and other issues raised by this historical moment. In other words, many curriculum modules on this topic have already been created. They should be included in the California State Ethnic Studies curriculum.
It has also come to my attention that this current outline also leaves out the Vietnamese American, Korean American, and South Asian American groups as well as many others. We are also aware that the first draft of the curriculum had a Pan-Asian studies which covered issues such as the Model Minority Myth. This is critical to our Asian American history, and to leave this section out would be a disservice to the children who don't understand what it means to be Asian American, despite being bullied and attacked by others for being Asian American.
Please reconsider the Asian American curriculum in your Ethnic Studies proposal to be more inclusive of many other groups.
Thank you,
Susan Hayase Former vice chair, Civil Liberties Public Education Fund Board, 1995-1998

