From: John Rachlin Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 12:31 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re Issue of Anti-Sematic and Anti-Israel Bias in Ethnic Studies Curriculum
My name is John Rachlin and I live in Los Angeles.
I am great concerned about the issue of full transparency to be given in curriculum development and implementation. Unfortunately, I have felt a breech in this supposed-to-be communicative relationship when it was sprung with lastminute decisions. The announcement of an additional chapter was announced just hours prior to the IQC meeting on August 13th.
The public commenting period which commences on September 1, is meant to give the community the opportunity to provide feedback on any issues it has with the curriculum prior to its final round of revisions. However, how can we do so if we are not given this supplemental content in time? Why is it being hidden? These factors only further my community's uneasiness to the intentions behind it. I am worried this chapter will be the source of more BDS.
In addition, many of the citations in this curriculum are from sources that promote BDS/anti-Israel authors. This raises raises concerns on what teachers will find when they use the sources for supplemental content American Jews Chapter which compares American Jews to Irish Americans teaches how Jewish Americans have become a privileged ethnicity. This is a way maligning the Jewish People and what we have also suffered in this country as a minority group that has had more hate crimes against it statistically than any other group. It also fosters increased antisemitism. Jews have never stopped being discriminated against, hated, and of course, the target of several violent and deathly attacks.
For a curriculum whose goal it is to educate about minorities and their struggles, this would in fact be doing the opposite by contributing to the misunderstandings of Jewish Americans and thus fueling the targeted hatred we experience.
I urge you to understand the power and consequences in your decisions by removing all citations that include antiIsrael sentiment and rewriting the chapter on Jewish Americans to reflect a more accurate and inclusive Jewish narrative. Please ensure that any additions to the curriculum will remain free of discriminatory content, such as antisemitic rhetoric, including but not restricted to mentions of BDS.
Thank you.
John Rachlin Court Receiver

