From: Sam Bahn Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 2:24 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Concerns
Dear CDE,
How can you create a curriculum without providing the public with an opportunity for comment? Your own methods need to be as transparent and ethical as what you propose teaching your students. Special interest groups who are trying to slip anti-Semitic content in through the back door of BDS need to be exposed to the light of day, not given the cover of darkness to achieve their nefarious ends, which certainly would not be provided to racists, sexists, homophobes and similar types. BDS leaders and founders are on record calling for terminating the existence of Israel, which is genocide and puts them in the same category of Iran threatening to wipe Israel off the map with nuclear or other weapons.
Issues such as "occupation" which need to be dealt with between the parties - Israelis and Palestinians - do not rise anywhere near the level of the destruction of Israel. In fact, the little known Oslo Accords of the 1990's which awarded Nobel peace prizes to both Palestinian national hero Yasir Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzchak Rabin, ended any occupation, by dividing the West Bank into 3 areas. Area A, encompassing all the major Palestinian cities, with 90% of the Palestinian population is governed by the democratically elected Palestinian Authority (PA), with Israelis allowed in only with visas, except for preemptive actions against terrorist attacks by Israel's Defense Forces. Area B, home of smaller Palestinian towns and 5% of its population is also governed by the PA, except for Israel troop movements though it to the Jordan valley, Israel's eastern border. Area C, with all the Israeli settlement communities, was put under Israel control by Oslo, with the widely accepted understanding that the major communities would remain as part of Israel with land swaps, with Israeli withdrawals in a final peace agreement. So "occupation" is not even close to a justification for BDS, when the historic Accord between the 2 sides - which supersedes orders by international bodies driven by 55 anti-Israel Muslim states - is examined.
And the BDS crowd has never addressed the real "occupation", by Jordan, from 1949-1967, after their illegal aggression against Israel in 1948, which never gave rise to the same Palestinian state that they now demand from Israel Why?.
So please, do not stack your curriculum with desperate accusations from anti-Semitic groups calling for the destruction of the one Jewish nation state, in a world of many Muslim and Christian countries, none of which are being threatened with extinction.
Thank you,
Samuel Bahn

