From: Ann Adelson-Rodriguez Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 4:31 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC
Dear CDE As a retired County Office of Ed bilingual director I want you to know how critical I feel it is that lessons on antisemitism be included within the new ethnic studies curriculum. If we have learned one lesson from what is going on right now in the USA it is that history can repeat itself, if students don't learn about it. One of the most powerful trips dual language educators told me they take their 6th grade students on each year is to the Museum of tolerance in Los Angeles, their student population basically zero Jewish students, their school is located right near the border. I am sure all of you have seen the movie or read the book, "Freedom Writers" based on a true story, again a teacher teaching about the Holocaust to teach about tolerance. In terms hate crimes in USA, the FBI's website states that in 2018 anti-Jewish Hate Crimes were 57.8 % of the religious bias crimes committed (of the 1,550 offenses reported) the next was 14.5% anti-Muslim. And of course these statistics do not include the more recent killings at synagogues, there's a reason I have to pass guards to go to my services.
At religious school at the high school level my kids (who are Afrolatino Jewish) learned about bias, tolerance, racism, other religions (actually met and dialogued with students from different religious backgrounds) in addition to learning and as part of learning about Anti-semitism.
Here are ideas for what should be included in a statewide ethnic curriculum:
1. A lesson plan on Jewish Americansthat recognizes the diversity of the community including Ashkenazi, Sephardic, Mizrachi Jews and Jews of color. Additionally, a lesson plan on Arab Americans should also refer to Jewish Americans of Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) descent.
2. An accurate definition of antisemitism, such as the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's, which the U.S. State Department adopted in 2010.
3. Inclusion of lessons about antisemitism. 4. Transparency and an opportunity for public comment in all phases of the
development of a final ESMC.
Sincerely,

Nenette Adelson-Rodriguez

