From: Stan Brin Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 5:01 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov>; [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Guidelines From Whistleblower
ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division
Regarding: Ethnic Studies Curriculum Guidelines
To Whom It May Concern:
I am a journalist and historian who survived a mass murder attempt at San Francisco State that is sanctified in AB 331 by clever omission, excision, and revision.
The anti-student riots at San Francisco State, called euphemistically by their supporters the "Student Strike" was in fact an elaborate embezzlement and extortion scheme coordinated between the fascist Black Students Union and the authoritarian leftist rulers of the campus. I became the state's whistleblower in a civil suit that eventually shut the riots down.
The story is explored in detail in my article "SFSU Whitewashes History" which may be found here. I should add that not one of the allegations of racism, extortion, embezzlement, and organized crime has ever been challenged. According a report published by the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence, the Black Students Union set 50 fires on one day alone while wearing stocking masks, Nov. 8, 1967. They also:
"...invaded campus offices, overturning desks and smashing equipment. Most of the vandalism was done at noon while a strikers' (sic) rally was going on at the center of the campus. Offices were raided in the chemistry, anthropology, and psychology departments. The raid on the office of the chemistry department occurred with a plainclothes policeman in an adjoining office a few feet away. Five men and two women, all wearing masks, burst into the office and turned over a desk, wrecked a duplicating machine, overturned wastebaskets, scattered files, and broke the glass in the door."
There is a lot more. Obviously, the students weren't on strike, they were forced off campus by violent Black Students Union criminals. The idea of "Ethnic Studies" as an academic "discipline" was not on their minds.
Yet the Guidelines include an entirely fabricated version of the creation myth of Ethnic Studies in Appendix A, page 136 regarding the anti-student riots at San Francisco State of 1967-1969. Originating from the Camino Nuevo High School, the text reads as follows:

...After reading about the movement to create Ethnic Studies (sic) programs at the collegiate level beginning with the Third World Liberation Front at San Francisco State University... The above statement is entirely fabricated propaganda and utterly at odds with facts on the ground at San Francisco State in 1965-1969.
The Guidelines repeat this lie on page 5 (lines 95-98) of the file att3esmcpreface.docx, which appears to be the preface of the entire guidelines:
Include information on the ethnic studies movement (sic), specifically the Third World Liberation Front (TWLF), and its significance in the establishment of ethnic studies as a discipline and work in promoting diversity and inclusion within higher education...
This statement is an outright lie and contrasts with the "General Principles," the first bullet point states that the curriculum guidelines shall "Include accurate information based on current and confirmed research."
Why is it important to maintain a fifty-year-old cover-up?
In addition, I would like to ask why the racist and genocidal Aztlan ideology is mentioned throughout the Guidelines? I have personally read Aztlanist literature, heard Aztlanist lectures, and interviewed Aztlanists. Named after a mythical Aztec homeland north of Mexico City, the ideology calls for "reconquest," a brutal race war of extermination against all non-Mexican people in the western United States. One can directly compare it to Nazi ideology.
For the record, I can prove everything I have said about San Francisco State, and a lot more. And, for the record, I do not expect a useful or positive response from the Department of Education. That lack of response will be part of my book and documentary film on this subject.
Sincerely,
Stan Brin

