From: Ronald Koss Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 4:20 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] CDE Curriculum Changes
To whom it may concern
Dear Sir/Mam.
I am a citizen concerned by the potential introduction of discrimination into the CDE curriculum. As a Jew, my concerns are most serious when such curriculum changes are introduced under the influence or auspices of anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli organizations. Furthermore, such curricular changes suggestions appear to have been introduced in "silence", without any community review, consulting or the necessary transparency as to give the public the opportunity for questioning the reasons for and the intentions of such suggested changes. Especially when the origin of such curricular changes come from sources that clearly promote BDS and anti Israel/Jewish sentiment. It appears that the intention of such proposed curricular changes have political, not educational, objectives, subliminally causing anti-Israeli sentiment and, as commonly seen as a side effect, anti-Semitic sentiment. This rhetoric (or propaganda) has, as a consequence, the serious potential for persecution and the isolation of our Jewish students.
I would like to bring to your attention that the authors proposed in the curriculum are not the owners of the truth as they present very one-sidedly, prismatic, racist and self serving opinions. They "pick and choose" which parts of history and facts to include in their writings, leave out historical facts that may contradict their agenda. Their objectives are to promote their political and nationalistic agenda which has NOTHING to do with the real education of our kids. They use the effective and deceiving propaganda technique of associating true facts with lies in order to create a "new" reality (well used by Russia TV and Chinese TV). In their teachings they purposely mix anti-Israeli issues with anti-Semitic lies, leading to misunderstanding, discrimination, hatred, and intentionally, disenfranchisement of Israel and the persecution of Jews not only as a religion but as a people. This, hopefully unintentional, empowerment will eventually result in violence and harm to innocent people for which the CDE may be held responsible and, consequentially, liable.
Any curriculum should not isolate Jews but, present Jews as part of the many minorities that immigrated into this country and, despite their small relative population, have contributed much to the growth of this society, identifying such contributions (just check on the Internet). The US history shows that Jews have never benefited from special treatment in this or any other country. Jews have suffered centuries of racial injustice and persecution. Their achievements, despite all odds, are based in merit and hard work, not favors. It is incumbent on you to not allow curricular changes that will help to perpetuate such injustices.
As for the complex history of the State of Israel and its conflicts, if in the curriculum, must be presented from a clear, impartial and fair perspective since like in all historical facts, there more than one side to each story and, when not properly presented, will certainly lead to misunderstandings and wrong conclusions. Just look at how different is a lesson on the Vietnam War today from what it was taught 40 years ago.

To conclude, it is your obligation to ensure that changes to any curriculum remain free of content and rhetoric that is discriminatory, even if subliminal. Especially when this information comes from one sided sources since then, you may be serving a misleading purpose despite your best intentions.
Sincerely,
Ronald J. Koss, DVM
THIS COMMUNICATION, INCLUDING ANY ATTACHMENTS, IS CONFIDENTIAL AND IS PROTECTED BY PRIVILEGE. IF YOU ARE NOT THE INTENDED RECIPIENT, ANY USE, DISSEMINATION OR COPYING IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED. IF YOU HAVE RECEIVED THIS COMMUNICATION IN ERROR, PLEASE IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE SENDER BY TELEPHONE OR E-MAIL, AND PERMANENTLY DELETE ALL COPIES, ELECTRONIC OR OTHER, THAT YOU MAY HAVE. THE FOREGOING APPLIES EVEN IF THIS NOTICE IS EMBEDDED IN A MESSAGE THAT IS FORWARDED OR ATTACHED.

