From: Havis, Allan Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 11:05 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Questions on omissions and overview on ethnicities
Dear IQC and SBE,
I realize the revised draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I understand that all written comments will be forwarded to the members of the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) and the State Board of Education (SBE) prior to your action upon the draft model curriculum. Clearly, there is minimal and anemic reference to anti-semitism in our region and in our nation. Moreover, the draft curriculum does not include Middle Eastern Jews in its lesson options. I implore you to enrich the curriculum and address these delicate issues for a more profound inclusiveness.
My father's parents (Sephardic) came from Istanbul and there was tremendous hardship and prejudice overseas and in the United States. The current draft module is a apparently a revised version of a more controversial curriculum that included at least one anti-semitic trope and a lesson plan on the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement. The discomfort for so many Jewish students in California, coming to process or to defend their religious ties to historic Israel and to contemporary Israel, while BDS assaults all threads these students hold which connect to either Jerusalem or to the state of Israel is wholly unfair to said students. The passage in the draft that bundle Irish Americans and Jewish Americans evolving or ascending to material privilege certainly is a loaded chapter in this curriculum. Vandalism and hate crimes abound in the Jewish community: Jewish cemeteries, Jewish schools, synagogues all have redoubled their security in recent years. The shooting murders in the Pittsburgh synagogue on the East Coast and eighteen months ago in the Poway synagogue on the West Coast speak volumes. I write this as a member of faculty at UC San Diego for 32 years, as a former provost of Marshall College/UC San Diego, and as a former department chair of Theatre & Dance.
Sincerely,
Allan Havis
Professor of Theatre
Director of Film Studies
Department of Theatre & Dance

UC San Diego

