From: Cesar Levy Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 12:13 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Comments
Thank you for taking the time to read this email.
In view of what has transpired with the ethnic studies model curriculum, full transparency is expected as is related to curriculum development and implementation. Unfortunately, the Jewish community has felt a breech in this supposed communicative relationship when we were overwhelmed with last-minute decisions. The announcement of an additional chapter was made just hours prior to the IQC meeting on August 13th. The public commenting period, which commenced on September 1, is meant to give the community the opportunity to provide feedback on any issues it has with the curriculum prior to its final round of revisions. However, how can we do so if we are not given this supplemental content in time? Furthermore, why is this new chapter being hidden? These factors only further my community's uneasiness to the intentions behind it. I am worried this chapter will be the source of more BDS. Many of the citations in this curriculum are from sources that promote BDS/anti-Israel authors. Thus, any curriculum whose sources are suspect raises concerns on what teachers will find when they use the sources for supplemental content For example, look at the American Jews Chapter which compares American Jews to Irish Americans. Instead of teaching the truth, that Jews were discriminated against from the time they set foot on these shores, it teaches how Jewish Americans have become a privileged ethnicity. This material is terrifying to Jews as it raises the specter of the rise in antisemitism, just as it did in Nazi Germany from 1933-1938. Antisemitism rose during the last year because Jewish Americans have been compared by the BDS movement to white supremacists and it blames Jews for racial injustice in America. The fact of the matter is that Jews have never stopped being discriminated against, hated, and of course, the target of several violent and deathly

attacks (Pittsburgh synagogue and the riots in Minnesota, to remind you of a few incidents). For a curriculum whose goal it is to educate about minorities and their struggles, this document you have created would in fact be doing the opposite, by contributing to the misunderstandings of Jewish Americans and thus further fueling the targeted hatred we experience. I urge you to understand the power and consequences in your decisions by Removing all citations that include anti-Israel sentiment; Rewriting the chapter on Jewish Americans to reflect a more accurate and inclusive Jewish narrative; Ensure that any additions to the curriculum will remain free of discriminatory content, such as antisemitic rhetoric, including but not restricted to mentions of BDS. Represent the efforts that Jews have put in to the Civil Rights movement, the murder of Jews who marched with African Americans in the South during Civil Rights marches, and what Jews have done to promote Civil and Social Justice. The above examples are what should be in this chapter, not the canards of the Protocols of Zion (which have been proven false time and again) that harken to the Jewish privileged ethnicity and Jews trying to destroy America. Thank you.

