From: Jason Randell Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 2:07 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Anti-semitism and the new Ethnic studies program.
To the Honorable Tony Thurmond,
I am deeply concerned with the new ethnic studies curriculum and how it will foster anti-Semitism. It has been a trying few years for Jews in America as we have been murdered in our houses of worship and abused in the streets. It is my fear that the new Ethnic studies curriculum aims to further the increase in anti-Semitism we are seeing across the country. And California is not immune to this virulent mind virus that is Anti-Semitism. Just last year in Poway, CA during our holy festival of Passover. A gunman entered the Poway synagogue and brutally murdered Lori Lynn Gilbert-Kaye and nearly murdering the rabbi of the synagogue. In the gunman's manifesto, he clearly enunciated his belief that the Jews were planning a "meticulously planned genocide of the European race".
Jews are now trapped between two competing belief systems where we are being accused of murdering the white race and by the proponents of this Ethnic Studies program who believe that Jews are the beneficiaries of white privilege. I can tell you from a lifetime of experience that Jews are not a "Race", we are a culture. In my synagogue you can find people of East Asian, Black, Iranian, Iraqi, Egyptian and Hispanic backgrounds who are Jewish. We are not one single race. The morals and ethics that drive us in life are radically different than that of white America. Our calendar is different and the holidays we celebrate as a people are different too.
I am particularly disturbed by some of the language in Unit 6. Specifically, " Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege. They will be asked to think critically about why and who is allowing this evolutionin white identity and how this shift is affecting the identity of Irish and Jewish Americans. "
If the state is unwilling to invest in a unit detailing the true travails of the Jewish struggle historically and in the USA and how we continue to suffer prejudice and abuse even in the modern era, that we be removed completely from the ethnic studies program. I would rather have a full and fair accounting of what our people have encountered in America than a false Narrative about how we enjoy the privileges of being white. It is frankly a grave insult to who we are, what we have endured and what we have accomplished in America despite the continued hatred of some of our countrymen.
I am here to tell you unequivocally, that Jews in America do not share the same privileges as white America. We still suffer prejudice and hatred that is only increasing in the USA. My question to you is a simple one. Will you stand against Anti-Semitism and Bigotry or will you foster it by pushing through this flawed curriculum that will only deepen the hatred of Jews?

Sincerely, Jason Randell

