From: Jennifer Frank Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 4:51 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] K-12 Ethnic Studies Curriculum
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing today to express my grave concern with the proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum for K-12 students. I do not have a problem with Ethnic Studies being taught at public schools, in fact, I think it is an important topic that should be broached with older students in high school.
When I first learned that California was going to mandate Ethnic Studies as a high school graduation requirement, I assumed that it would be informed by the considerable achievements, assets, and contributions that the variety of ethnic groups have made to California and the United States at large. To my great consternation, I saw very quickly that instead it is based on the critical theories of study (Critical Race Theory and Critical Ethnic Studies). These theories hold that people are divided into two groups: oppressors and victims. They also employ the most divisive kind of identity politics. Why on earth would we want to teach certain children that they are perpetual victims based upon their race, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation and others that they are oppressors based on those same factors?
When I found this email address, I read that "commenters are encouraged to include in their comment specific suggestions for items that they would like the IQC and/or SBE to consider." The fact that this entire curriculum is based upon extraordinarily divisive theories of study makes it basically invalid. I feel that you, as the Board of Education, owe it to the children of California to rewrite the entire curriculum. I know that this is the second draft, but it is vital that you get this right. You have an extraordinary opportunity to provide a high-quality, contribution-based curriculum (vs one that emphasizes victimhood) that the rest of the country could look to for their students. I am sad to say that this draft is not that curriculum.
Sincerely,
Jennifer Frank

