From: Katya Rouzina Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 8:14 PM Subject: [EXTERNAL] California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum: Please Include Jews in a Thoughtful Way
Hello,
I am a California resident who is concerned about the ESMC and how it will affect progressive Jews like myself.
Thank you for making significant improvements to the second draft, including removal of all references to the BDS campaign and other overtly biased content targeting Jews and Israel. I fully support the inclusion of Arab Americans alongside Middle Eastern and North African Americans in the Asian American section, as well as the inclusion of Pacific Islanders.
Mizrahi Jews and MENA minority communities comprise an estimated 60% of California's population from the region. It is imperative their stories not be erased. By changing Arab American Studies to Middle Eastern Studies, this much-needed inclusion can be accomplished.
California's diverse Middle Eastern populations should be fairly and equitably represented. We are asking the California Department of Education to follow the State Board's standards and guidelines, which require the curriculum to be balanced and portray represented peoples proportionately.
The State of California must uphold its promise of transparency and public input in reviewing the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. We are deeply troubled by the CDE's recommendation that the public will not be allowed their rightful opportunity to review and comment on any new Arab American Studies lesson plan or content to be added to the curriculum, per standard procedure as defined in AB2016.
The State of California must draw clear red lines against antisemitism and discrimination. The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum must not include the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement, and other highly politicized conversations about Middle Eastern conflicts that create unsafe classrooms for Jewish and Middle Eastern minority students throughout California.
Katerina 'Katya' Rouzina, M.A.
Mountain View, CA

