From: Michael Levenson Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 10:36 PM To: Superintendent; Ethnic Studies Subject: Marin Mandated Teacher Sensitivity Training
Dear Superintendent, I was stunned to learn that yesterday, 09/28/2020, the Marin Board of Education mandated teacher sensitivity training ; what was most stunning is that there was no training around preventing antiSemitism specifically and that yesterday was Yom Kippor, the holiest day of the Jewish calendar when Jews traditionally are praying, not working. My reaction was to ask myself, "Was this really sensitivity training or insensitivity training?" Given that ethnic Jewish people have been one of the most persecuted groups in history, that six million Jews were targeted and murdered by the Nazis in World War II, and in light of the recent and very scary anti-Semitism problems in Marin at Redwood, Terra Linda, etc where lists of Jewish students have circulated via social media and Jewish students have been harassed (both online from the list and in person), education and sensitivity training around anti-Semitism are absolutely essential.
At the very least, training should be provided to teachers and students using the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of anti-Semitism (see below link). This definition has been adopted by the Department of State (2010), the US Department of Education, and is recommended by the UN Secretary General. Moreover, when students are subjected to and threatened by anti-Semitism, swift action with full accountability must be taken
https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-definitions-charters/working-definitionantisemitism.
As a parent of a graduated Marin public school student, as a Marin resident, and as a Jew and member of the Jewish community, I feel intensely uneasy and threatened when anti-Semitism is not dealt with head on. Hate is never acceptable and always a danger to the community at large.
Please take this letter to heart. Hate of any form, anti-Semetism included, is never acceptable.
Very truly yours,
Michael Levenson (Fairfax, CA resident

