From: shauna Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 3:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC)
To the Ethnic Studies Committee and Senator Stern,
As a Jewish American, I am well aware that we need to encourage tolerance and respect for all. I am also well aware that with anti semitism currently at an all time high, we need to be very careful not to fan those damaging flames in our education system.
I, along with thousands of other Californians, respectfully request that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum make the following 4 changes:
1) Teach about anti-Semitism and the Holocuast and that tolerance and acceptance is a must in a civilized society.
2) Include broad Jewish American experiences and include sample lesson(s) that reflect the diversity of Jewish Americans. The American Jewish community has Ashkenazi Jews, Sephardic Jews, Jews with varying religious denominations - orthodox, conservative, reform. There are also African American Jews (some that you might know include singer Drake, Tiffany Haddish, Lisa Bonet, David Blu, Rashida Jones, Maya Rudolph), Jews from China, India, etc. that reside here.
3) Remove anti Semitic language, dispel anti semitic falsehoods and ensure that denigrating content about Jews and Israel -- including support for the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement -- is excluded
4) Recommit to transparency and the predetermined process of writing to the ESMC
Respectfully,
Shauna Shapiro Jackson
This email and any attachments to it is private and confidential and may contain privileged information. It is intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom it is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient of this email, you must neither take any action based upon its contents, nor copy or show it to anyone. If you believe you have received this email in error, please contact the sender and immediately delete the email and its attachments.

