From: Joy Guo Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 11:58 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on California Model Curriculum on Ethnic study
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission, State Board of Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, State Superintendent Tony Thurmond, and Governor Gavin Newsom,
I write to you with deep concern about the current draft of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) .
As a Chinese American who has been living in this country for more than 30 years, I found the current curriculum narrowly focused on only one aspect of the ethnic study, which is victim vs repression, dividing people between white and colored. This is not uniting, but rather dividing minorities from the mainstream society. As America becoming a pluralistic society, we as minorities developed our unique American Experience, our history and culture is part of the US History and Culture.
Although having this class implemented in K-12 has good intention, I feel the current curriculum tried to impose political views and agendas into the required K-12 curriculum. As Chinese Americans, and an advocate serving on several national Chinese American and Asian American Organizations, I see great need to have Chinese American's positive contribution not just history of repression and discrimination added into the model ethnic study curriculum, so students can view minorities not just as perpetual foreigners who were historically oppressed. They need to know our contribution and we part of the progress.
I am also here to to express my support for the detailed revision requests recently sent to you by the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies. I join in urging you to remove the political agenda from the "Guiding Values and Principles" and resulting lessons by:
1. Removing the inflammatory "Guiding Values," which promote radical ideological aims such as "transformative post-imperial resistance," and can be used to justify bringing hate and political dogma into the classroom.
2. Aligning all lessons only to the impartial Outcomes, and identify those Outcomes as "Guiding Principles and Outcomes."
3. Adding the Los Angeles Unified School District's Elements of a Balanced Curriculum as guidelines against politicizing Ethnic Studies classes.
4. Excluding the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement and other one-sided political conversations about Middle Eastern conflicts, which do not belong in California Ethnic Studies and create unsafe classrooms for students.
5. Incorporating approaches to social change from a wide range of political orientations, including methods that work within the US system to improve it.
Thank you for your attention to these crucial problems in the ESMC.

Sincerely, Joy Guo

