From: Save CA Ethnic Studies Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 11:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] 09-30-20: 25,000+/500,000+ In Support for Original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft
Dear California Department of Education,
We write to ask that you register our 25,000+ public comments in support of the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft in your official summary of public comments. Additionally, over 150 community-based organizations and professional associations are in support, with combined memberships of over 500,000 people. Across California, university Ethnic Studies and Education departments are in support, as are all California School Board Associations of Color, local school boards throughout the state, the founders of Ethnic Studies, and high school and university students today. We have an obligation to provide an authentic Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, not a diluted and superficial version, for today's youth and future generations -- thank you for your work in doing so.
Please do not be deterred by claims of bias and lack of balance, which echo President Trump's recent federal ban of critical race theory -- Ethnic Studies emerged and exists precisely because of the standard K-12 curriculum's bias and lack of fairness to students of color. Ethnic Studies is the counternarrative to this, by design. It is not to be conflated with multicultural education. When California echos President Trump's claims against people of color led educational movements, it is a tragic moment. We must be be better California, we must rise to meet this moment of educational and racial justice. Dilution is not the solution, our students across the state deserve the authentic Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Thank you for being a part of 50+ years of struggle for this moment.
Sincerely, Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition https://www.change.org/p/defend-ethnic-studies-for-our-students-save-our-curriculum-at-the-ca-deptof-ed-now
---------

