From: Gordon Black Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 8:09 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: Pacnorthcal Prokopczuk ,Edward Wojciech Jesman Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on draft, Model Curriculum for Ethnic Studies
To:
Instructional Quality Commission California department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division
From:
Gordon Black, Office for Ethnic Relations Polish American Congress, Northern California Division
Cc:
Dr. Andrzej Prokopczuk, President, Polish American Congress, Northern California Mr. Edward Jesman, President, Polish American Congress, Southern California
Subject:
Review comments for second draft of Model Curriculum for Ethnic Studies
The Office for Ethnic Relations in the Polish American Congress, Northern California Division, in communication with PAC Southern California Division, submitted the following comment for the first draft of the California Model Curriculum for Ethnic Studies:
Bill AB-2016, Pupil Instruction in Ethnic Studies, recognizes that there are 93 languages including English spoken throughout the state, and so, while identifying a core group for particular support, the Model Curriculum should respect the presence and identities of all the ethnicities.
We are pleased with advances in the second draft, and look forward to further refinements arising from the second review.
Because of emphasis by The New York Times regarding the first landing of African slaves in America, as published in its 1619 Project, we anticipate attention to the first documented labor strike in the New World, at Jamestown, in that same year of 1619. The strike was conducted by Polish craftsmen, who won the right to vote in the the English colony.

We might consider intersections of that early protest with the 1968 strike at San Francisco State College, calling for inclusion and dignity, impelling development of Ethnic Studies and its emerging Model Curriculum.
We offer a thought, motivated by the classroom projects in Appendix C of the proposed Model Curriculum, particularly the Gallery Walk lesson. Here is an image, a painting by Artur Szyk, from the Polish Pavilion of the 1939 World's Fair in New York, representing the Jamestown Polish activists.
Might California children, of all our various ethnicities, ask what is being told in this image, and what connections they might find with their own stories, and with the hopeful goals of Ethnic Studies?

