From: David Brutman Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 1:30 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic studies curriculum - input
Respected committee members,
My name is David Brutmam, a resident of Sunnyvale, CA, father of 3 and a high tech entrepreneur. I am writing this email to provide some feedback on the ethnic studies program.
First, I want to congratulate the state of California for creating this curriculum, which is ever more important these days, when we see higher levels of racism and hate across our country. As important as this topic is, it is critical to build the curriculum in a way that is balanced, sensitive and transparent. Over the last few months, we have seen different sources of information on the work of the committee and I would like to encourage the committee to continue to be proactive and open about its discussions, call the public for their opinion and take decisions via collaboration.
Second, as an American jew, I see great importance to address the issue of antisemitism. It has been all time high in 2019 and continues to become a major problem. I am heartbroken by the religious hate crimes executed in the US and specificlaly the murder of 11 innocent people in the Pittsburgh sysngogoe. I want to request the committee for the inclusion of a meaningful definition of antisemitism. Past proposals also included outrageous derogatory language about Jews, Israelis, and Israel. I would request to protect against such future proposals and place guardrails in place to keep such language out of the classroom in the future.
Last, I believe that the jewish ethnic group is one of great diversity and importance for the american nation. As such, it is of most importance to include a sample lesson reflecting the diversity of Jewish Americans, including Jewish Americans from the Middle East and North Africa and Jews of Color.
I am confident that the committee's mission will be fulfilled via being transparent and showing good faith, and by taking into account the input provided above.
I am looking forward to being connected to the committee's work and learning about your path forward.
Best regards,
David Brutman

