From: Ksnc 2019 Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 1:30 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Inclusion of Korean-American Experiences in Ethnic Studies curriculum
September 30, 2020
Dear California Department of Education,
Greetings from Korean Schools of Northern California (KSNC). On behalf of the KSNC we would like to express our interest and excitement about Ethnic Studies being included as curriculum for K-12 in California, and the potential to include Korean American culture.
Let us introduce ourselves and identify who we are. KSNC currently serves 52 Korean Schools in Northern California. Korean Schools provide weekend schooling for those who are interested in learning Korean language, culture, and history. Forty years ago, we established our organization to educate Korean Heritage to our 2nd and 3rd generations. However, modern technology opens the global doors. Today, to our surprise, the number of non-Korean students are registering to learn Korean culture and language are growing rapidly.
Schools today, serve students from a wide range of cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Including curriculum to teach students not only about their own heritage but of those around them will foster a culture of inclusion, understanding and respect. Asian American culture is a huge part of both American culture and Californian culture. While the Korean population in California may only be ~1%, the impact of Korean culture on California and the world today through food, tv shows, shopping areas and popular music cannot be understated. Los Angeles and the Bay area both house huge Korean cultural areas, with KoreaTown in Los Angeles being known around the world. Music bands such as BTS have taken the world by storm, and Korean dramas have begun sweeping the internet with the rise of online access to global television. Korean food is always a global desire with many restaurant chains and brands now adding Korean BBQ flavors to their menus. At the heart of Ethnic Studies is the ability and opportunity to learn about the cultures we grow up in and give greater meaning to where

they come from. Including Korean culture and even more specifically Korean American culture would provide a great resource to the new curriculum by adding to its diversity and representing a good portion of California's history.

At KSNC, we firmly believe that including Korean culture into the Ethnic Studies curriculum will enrich the program as a whole, and not including it would leave students missing a huge piece of Asian American culture in California. We respectfully request that you include Korean American culture as part of the Ethnic Studies curriculum.

Respectfully,

KSNC Executive Officers President: Hee Yeon Hwang Ah Kwak
Vice President: Susie S. Coover
Vice President: Min Ho Son
Treasurer: Meejeon Lee

General Secretary: Eun
Internal Administer: Nan Joo Kim External Administer: Dukhyun Cho

KSNC Members

