From: Brian Shiroyama Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 3:04 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Inclusion of Japanese American History in ESMC
My name is Brian Shiroyama, a third-generation Japanese American. In my 30 years with the United States Air Force, I have encountered many occasions in which the knowledge of Japanese American history was lacking. For example, in 1979 when Iran took our American Embassy personnel in Iran hostage, the immediate "solution" proposed by even well-educated leaders was to round up all persons of Iranian descent in the United States and lock them up. When I argued that it would not solve anything as the US Government had already done so to 120,000 plus persons of Japanese descent (nearly 70% US-born citizens) in 1942 in emotional reaction to Pearl Harbor, the responses were of almost total ignorance of that part of American history.
I am now Vice President of a Japanese American veterans' group called Friends and Family of Nisei Veterans (FFNV). The goal of FFNV is to tell the proud stories of Nisei (second-generation) veterans who fought during World War II for this country to prove their loyalty to the United States despite having their families and friends interned in relocation camps. As part of this effort, FFNV created a Nisei Veterans' Exhibit aboard a retired US Navy aircraft carrier named Hornet anchored at former Alameda Naval Station. In addition to displays that depict valiant exploits of Nisei veterans in Europe and secretly in the Pacific, FFNV added an exhibit of Japanese American history that covers from immigration to internment and resettlement. The exhibit is very popular and well-received by visitors. It is very surprising, however, to hear their remarks with one common theme - "I didn't know that. My history lessons never included this dark period of American history." Their reactions are genuine and speak clearly that we need to educate our society better to understand that massivelydepriving liberty and justice and basic human rights of any ethic group based on unfounded fear is not only wrong but also unconstitutional. That's why I strongly support including Japanese American history in ethnic studies' curriculum.
Thank you for allowing me to express my views.
Brian Shiroyama

