From: Joseph Fox Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 10:22 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] AB 331
It's very alarming to me that the new version of the ethnic studies is anti-Israel and also has an incorrect definition of who Jews are. It encourages a section about Arab Americans omitting any study of Jews and their history. Jews have been a religious group for 5781 years. How can you omit us from the history of the world?
Under California's AB 331, California high school students will be required to complete an Ethnic Studies course to graduate. After the Anti Defamation League (ADL) and allies successfully prevented the adoption of a biased 2019 version of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), the California Department of Education (CDE) ordered a new draft. Officials pledged to restrict the content to four traditional Ethnic Studies groups - African Americans, Asian Americans, Native Americans, and Latinx Americans, and committed to purge the curriculum of anti-Semitic and anti-Israel content.
The July 2020 ESMC draft was indeed restricted to the four groups and largely free of offensive content. ADL submitted initial comment towards improving the draft. Later, on August 12, the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) announced it would reinsert an unspecified lesson plan on Arab Americans within the Asian American curriculum. Unfortunately, the antisemitic and anti-Israel bias in the 2019 draft was found in the lesson plan.
As a member of the Jewish community, I have a special duty to speak out and stand up when I see experience injustice. If California passes this curriculum without correcting the antisemitic bias, it can reverberate throughout the country because states often borrow curriculum from each other due to a process that can be expensive and time-consuming.
Joseph Fox
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTE: This communication contains information belonging to Murchison & Cumming LLP which is confidential and/or legally privileged. The information is intended only for the use of the individual or entity named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution or the taking of any action in reliance on the contents of said information is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication by error, please delete it from your computer and notify us immediately.

