From: Jessie Davidson Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 11:52 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Comments
To the Members of the CDE,
My name is Jessie Davidson. I live in Los Altos and have two children who went through the LASD and then MVLA school systems (one is still in high school). My family and I are Jewish. We have already experienced vile antisemitism at my daughter's MVLA high school--in the curriculum--and had to fight a prolonged battle with the district to get the offending content removed. No one seemed to perceive that accusing Jews of slavering over the blood of Egyptian children was anti-Semitic, and further, no one seemed to care. I hoped against hope that this was a one-off experience.
Now I see the CDE considering a curriculum that openly singles out Jews as "privileged" and "oppressors" (along with some other ethnic/national identities), and designates other people as "victims." This sets up Jews as an enemy. This characterization will lead directly to violence against Jewish children in school, and Jews at large in the community, AS YOU WELL KNOW. This curriculum places one ethnicity at war with another, which cannot lead to any improvement in peaceful relations. It does not give Jewish history its due, and whitewashes the horrendous history of oppression and slaughter and discrimination that Jews have undergone. It implies that Jews are behind any unfair treatment of blacks and other ethnicities.
The curriculum you are considering (even though you put out that you had moved on to an amended curriculum) is vile and hateful, again, AS YOU KNOW. If you move forward with it, you are betraying any oath you made to do what is best for the children and to further truth.
But in short, if you establish this curriculum with these hateful elements in it, I will remove my child from public school that same day, and I venture that hundreds and thousands of Jews will do the same, rather than subject our children to the violence you will be inciting.
Thank you, Jessie Davidson

