From: chicanaherstory Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 4:47 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] TWLF Matriarchs of UCB in support of ESMC
Dear IQC;
I am writing on behalf of some of the surviving elders, matriarchs of the battle for a Third World College at UCB 51 years ago, which the University immediately changed to Department of Ethnic Studies. We once again find ourselves activated to rise up and challenge the bullying , the gross undermining and watering down by the forces of White Male Patriarchy and men of color who have acquiesced to this racist, misogynistic ideology by caving in to the pressures, fueled by millions of dollars of dirty money campaigns.
We affirm and proudly support the original ESMC document, as aligned to our timeless vision of Self determination for Native, Black, Chicano and Asian Americans and other peoples of the Third World. The current racial reckoning happening nationally and globally, also takes on a racist, sexist stance, as 2020 marks the 100 year commemoration of white women suffrage. We proudly remind you that an Indigenous Matriarchy existed on this land now called the United States of America., a thousand plus years before the forced importation of White Supremacy/ Patriarchy on these shores beginning in 1493; when the papal bull, also known as the Doctrine of Discovery was issued. This fact , the beauty and strength of our Clan Mothers, Grandmothers has been erased, in the educational system, like so much of our history, and contributions to the point that women's rights is equated just with white women.
We continue to stand with the beauty of a way of life that is all about balance, and how to live on our precious earth. Western Civilization has shown us, it is incapable of coming to terms with. These indigenous teachings have profound meaning for all peoples desperately seeking ways of living harmoniously amidst the climate catastrophe we find ourselves in. We scream out for justice, fairness, equity against the ongoing marginalization of our truth in the education of our youth, our most valued natural resource. White supremacy/ patriarchy on this land is the lie that must die, not just keep on being perpetrated in the educational institutions. Your current plans to dilute Ethnic Studies shows how out of balance you so called leaders continue to be.
In Solidarity with ESMC,
Maria E. Ramirez an Dr. Nina Genera UCB alumni and TWLF supporters

