From: Beacon Miodovsky Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 10:18 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Jewish Representation in Ethnic Studies
link to MENA coalition lesson:
https://www.jimena.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Antisemitism-and-Middle-EasternAmerican-Jews-Lesson-Plan.pdf
On Wed, Sep 30, 2020 at 10:16 PM Beacon Miodovsky wrote:
To the Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
My name is Beacon Miodovsky and I live in Los Angeles, CA. I am writing to you today because I enthusiastically support your vision of an "inclusive...space for all students...to learn different perspectives." I do not believe it is possible to realize this vision with the exclusion or misrepresentation of the Jewish people and their history. Jews make up 2.2. percent of the United States population. California is home to over a million of those Jewish citizens. It is a state with one of the highest Jewish populations in the nation. Los Angeles is home to over 50,000 Iranian Jews. It is home to Russian Jews, Ethiopian Jews and many others who have fled ethnic persecution in their country of origin to find refuge here, raise their families here, and contribute to this society.
The State of California has a problem with Jew hatred. In 2017, a list of "40 Worst Colleges for Jewish Students" included ten schools located in California- seven of which were University of California schools. In 2019, hate crimes in this state targeting Jews increased by 12%. This happened at a time when hate crimes as a whole dropped by about 5%. 2019 is the same year of the synagogue shooting in Poway, CA where Jewish families (including children) were shot with a rifle during holiday prayer in their house of worship. This year, synagogues have been vandalized and Jews are being blamed for the coronavirus. Jews have been and continue to be a persecuted minority in this state, in this country, and across the world. It is an obligation to share the Jewish point of view, especially now. The general principles as stated on your guidelines call to "include accurate information" and "promote critical thinking and rigorous analysis of history." Please do not ignore, erase, or misrepresent our history. Please consider your students, both Jewish and non, who will benefit from such an education lest history repeats itself. Please also consider your reputation as the Instructional Quality Commission of

the California Board of Education should you omit such a large and terrorized minority community in your state from representation in ethnic studies.
In formulating your ethnic studies curriculum, I urge you to: 1. Adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's working definition of antisemitism to guide your curriculum recommendations. Without doing so, you may implant racism towards Jews into a program which is meant to create tolerance, respect, and the building of a better future. 2. Teach Jewish history, and the IHRA working definition of antisemitism in your ethnic studies program so students can be race literate in Jew hatred. 3. Include the MENA coalition lesson from, "Antisemitism and Middle Eastern American Jews," which focuses on the lived experiences of Mizrahi Jews in the United States.
Thank you.

