From: Genevieve Platt Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 5:18 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov>; [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Modifications to the ESMC
To members of the CA Dept of Education and the IQC,
Since last year, the Jewish Public Affairs Committee (JPAC) has been advocating for the removal of anti-Israel and antisemitic themes in California's draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). JPAC is a coalition that includes the local JCRC I support and was a member of, and 24 other Jewish institutions across California.
I am respectfully and strongly requesting you to accept and pledge to the following FOUR requests related to the ESMC:
1. The inclusion of a meaningful definition of antisemitism. 2. No return of the derogatory language about Jews, Israelis, and Israel, with guardrails in place
to keep such language out of the classroom in the future. 3. The addition of a sample lesson reflecting the diversity of Jewish Americans, including Jewish
Americans from the Middle East and North Africa and Jews of Color. 4. Commit to complete transparency to developing the curriculum.
These are issues that are extremely important to me, my family and community. My own parents were survivors of the Nazi Holocaust against the Jewish peoples of Europe. The genocide began with written words--words that were derogatory and demeaning and devolved into words and images that protrayed Jewish women, men and children as subhuman; nothing more than slaves, or even animals that could and should be exterminated. Language used in education is very powerful and can elevate and bring peoples together or become a very slippery slope that can denigrate and plant the seeds of hatred and racism of any type.
Please use the power you hold to guide, educate and mold the next generations with careful consideration to the request listed above.
Thank you for your serious consideration, --
Genevieve K. Platt Ph.D.
Clinical Psychologist Nurse Practitioner

