From: Dina Fong Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2020 11:03 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: FW: [EXTERNAL] Urgent and confidential (ethnic studies)
From: Claire Chedekel Sent: Tuesday, September 29, 2020 9:08 PM To: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Urgent and confidential
Hello Superintendent Tony Thurmond,
By now I am sure that you are aware of the Antisemitic attacks on many students in the Marin County community under the Superintendent Marin Jewish students targeted in online attacks
Marin Jewish students targeted in online attacks
Educators and parents condemned the incidents linked to Redwood High School and Terra Linda High School. Unbelievably a Jewish friend was mandated to attend a class at MCOE via Zoom on Yom Kippur, the most holy day for religious and non-religious Jews. The talk was on racial justice and religious minority groups (worthy content indeed) but ironically no mention of Jews.
I have lived in fear for many years but feel a need to express my experiences and concerns at this time in hopes of protecting our students.
First the Antisemitic events occurred on social media since March but went on reported until this last month or so at the Redwood HS in the TUHSD. The lists of Jewish students names kept, some 100, and the students reached out to were throughout Marin County and were my one of my children's peer group. And, again at Terra Linda HS. These incidents hit close to home impacting our community and reminded us of the trauma we experienced during the last 10 years.
My son was permanently kicked out of a cohort class permanently at 11 years old without discipline record, almost all 5 cohort classes to a new cohort, for challenging why Xmas hats were only permitted 3 weeks prior to Christmas. I was working for the schools in the county at the time. The principal at the time emailed the 700 school community members to say we lied about the incident (The principal and

teacher were moved that fall to other schools). We wanted a teachable moment for the class, an apology for my son and reinstatement in the class. He didn't get any of it, humiliating, a great caring kid whom was also standing up for himself and a close family friend's daughter (a Muslim). It was mortifying and alienating. We had really little support. I no longer work in the county in my field as I later found due to my sons incident, per a school board member after the 2 year grace period, they wanted to make sure we would not sue. I lost my professional career of 11 years, I had an excellent reputation and senior recommendations but was declined 2 times despite multiple position openings. The principal and teacher were moved that fall to other schools.
My older daughter ridiculed by a teacher for missing class due to Yom Kippur. A hate mural with crosshairs and Nazis symbols was painted at 1327 (Drake at the time) in 2016. Students asked to be able to form as a minority group (Jewish) and the principal denied them. Social media hate as well was occurring. Twenty kids did a sit in in the admin offices, still denied. And the school denied extra security at graduation.
These are several of many more Antisemitic incidents. While working for the county an aide kept mocking me with Hebrew prayers, jokes and later the silent treatment. Then one day I exited the door heard a loud thump and opened the door and there was a shoe quite large, one that fit his 6'3" close to 300 lbs frame. In front of the disabled children he had gotten away with assault. I was urged to report it by a Latina aide that had food thrown at her by this man. I was interrogated, later to find out by an attorney, and sent a redacted report stating he would never bother me. Needless to say I was quite fearful for a year or so after. But these recent Antisemitic events have brought it all back.
All I ask for is for our kids to be supported, for hate to be addressed, ALL hate. Hate is hate. It has no place in our society and certainly not endorsed by our educators and administrators. I want for us to do better as a society and not let children suffer alone.
As a grandchild of a orphaned teenager that ran for her life fleeing gunfire 200 km to a cousins home, grandchild of pogrom survivors (siblings killed, homes burned) and refugees to the US, a great granddaughter to a murdered great grandfather shot in the streets by Nazis, and great granddaughter to a murdered grandfather in the streets of NY for being a dark curly haired Jew, and a cousin to cousins that have lived in Israel over 100 years, and a cousin born into a labor camp and raised there until about 9 (she is still living but her brother starved to death) I speak as their memory gives me courage.
I encourage a uniform countywide and state response, the adoption of the IHRA definition of Antisemitsm https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-definitions, adoption of definitions of all hate based ideology and action, promote knowledge of the ESMC and advocacy for a balanced curriculum without the anti-Jewish anti-Zionist content, and inclusion of Jews as an ethnic and religious minority.
Thank you for your consideration,
Claire

