From: Lawrence Feldman Sent: Thursday, September 3, 2020 8:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] AB-331
Us about the `privilege' Jews have that your curriculum wants to discuss.
Does it include the `privilege' of disproportionate hate crimes? Does it include the `privilege' of antisemitism that's arisen from BLM, the organization, and also among the protest in general during the past few months? The `privilege' of false allegations that Israel has hand-trained local police? Or the `privilege' of false analogies between Palestinians and BLM & the border with Mexico?
There NEVER was a Palestinian nation. There was the Ottoman Empire, and then the British Mandate between the World Wars. The only Palestinian leadership was an Egyptian Grand Mufti of Jerusalem who led at least 4 major pogroms against Jews between 1910-1930, and later led a Palestinian attempted coup of Iraq for the Nazis, with the hope of bringing death camps to the Middle East. This only was stopped by Rommel's defeat in N. Africa, and the Mufti's overthrow being short-lived. The recognized Arab power during the Mandate had been the Saudis, as seen by the Feisal-Weizmann Pact of 1918 to agree to Jewish immigration to populate and modernize the land with the stipulation of also employing locals and nomads.
Does your curriculum mention any of that context? That it was then the Palestinians who rejected their first ever nation in 1948 by refusing the UN Partition? That after Israel defeated 3 more Arab armies in 1967 it was the Palestinians (who their brothers never deemed worthy of governing the West Bank and Gaza, that latched on to the 1967's Khartoum Resolutions 3 Nos (No Negotiation, No Recognition, No Peace) rather than negotiate under UN Resolution 242 (which it's authors have stated expected Israel to keep a couple percent of the conquered land to make its border more defensible)? Terror against school buses and shopping malls? Rejection of the Clinton Peace Plan, which even the Saudis now publicly admit was a mistake?
How about the `privilege' of all that out of context history being swept under the rug so bigots like Omar, Tliab and Sarsour can spread their hate? Speaking of Sarsour, are you going to teach the Middle Eastern `privilege' of professing on Twitter her taking advantage of `White Privilege' until she donned a hijab? That's some `privilege' that a piece of clothing can change one's race.
You're going to do a great job of creating the racial/ethnic animus that the Klan's David Duke and Louis Farrakhan (I wonder how much of his racial, anti-semitic and homophobic ranting you'll ignore), both racial supremacists, projected yrs back when they met to discuss a theoretical division of the United States into 3 countries: one for White bigots, one for Black bigots, and one for normal people. Which begs the point: it's cute to pigeon-hole one group as `racist' & `colonialist' by limiting the time/geographic constraints, but how are you going to discuss the BIGOTS in every group?
Sincerely,
Lawrence Feldman
Sent from Mail for Windows 10

