From: Joy Shefter Sent: Thursday, September 3, 2020 10:06 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public comment submission for CA Bill: AB 331
Public Comment regarding CA Ethnic Studies course Bill AB 331
We have had so much "privilege" as Jews, continuous and vicious rising anti-Semitism in the world, historically and today. Jews arrived in America with nothing but the clothes on their backs (those who were lucky enough to escape the ovens), not speaking the language. My grandfather came here with less than $7 in his pocket. His wife and three little children followed in the steerage of a ship many months later. (Steerage was in the bowels of the ship. It was horribly hot, no beds, no sanitary accommodations. ) They never depended on anyone to give them anything. They survived by sheer grit and determination to make a better life for their families.
My Dad left home at 15 because his family couldn't afford to feed him. He worked in a laundry and slept in the clothes bins because he couldn't afford a place to sleep. He worked in a bakery, a fish market, sold shoes and newspapers and worked any place else he had to in order to support himself and his family. The result: Two of his sons are doctors through hard work and perseverance. His grandchildren are lawyers, dentists, computer specialists etc.
Jews have always been contributing members of society no matter where they have been allowed to live.
I worked 3 part time jobs when I went to college because they helped pay for college. The government didn't help me. I didn't expect anyone else to help me.
Where and when will this horrible lie end? My friend in Toronto Canada that told me they removed the mezuzah from their door because they were afraid of rampant antiSemitism.
Teaching these "lies" to young malleable minds will only make things worse. There was no "head start" for Jewish children, no food stamps, no safety net at all. The difficulties of living in the United states as a Jew continue even till today. College exams are given on our holiest day of the Jewish year. Law school finals also given at these times. Jewish students have to deal with wide spread anti-Jewish sentiment at state run California colleges. No one teaches anything about the contributions made by this small minority of creators, artists, musicians, technical geniuses, doctors, lawyers, scientists, professors, Nobel Prize winners, entrepreneurs, financial geniuses, etc. They want nothing more than to be allowed to worship their G-d, raise there families, and add their knowledge and hard work to the communities in which they live.
This is what the Ethnic Studies program in California should be teaching about the Jewish people.

Will this prejudice and misinformation never stop and never end?
This curriculum is an insult to an ethnic group whose only crime is that they want to be secure in their homes and make this country and California a better place for all residents.
Please reconsider the content of this course. It is teaching hate in the most dishonest way, disguised as a step forward. In fact it is a step backward towards Nazi propaganda and we know how well that turned out.
Sincerely,
Joy C. Shefter

