From: Mark Harding Sent: Thursday, September 3, 2020 10:23 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] comments on the revised draft during this 30-day Second Field Review
In many ways this revised draft if more insidious than the first. Neither time nor space permit me to provide an exhaustive list of examples of the divisive, hurtful, hateful, demeaning, racist, anti-Semitic, Marxist, and often inaccurate portrayals of groups and individuals. Let me provide but two examples that provide the basis for this latest draft to be cancelled in its entirety and a new effort with representation from alternate points of view regarding the history being taught and the intent of what students should learn under an ethnic studies program.
First, Appendix A: UC-Approved Course Outlines, Page 6, lines 134135: "Students will be presented with a different perspective of the conquest of North America. This will start with Christopher Columbus' genocide of the native population,...." This statement of fact is in fact not factual. For example, here is one competing perspective on the fate of indigenous peoples in the time of Columbus. "'Yet it's increasingly clear that most of the carnage had nothing to do
with European barbarism,' the Yale historian David Brion Davis said in a
Newsweek article. 'The worst of the suffering was caused not by swords
or guns, but by germs.'" So genocide was in fact not the driving force behind the deaths of these peoples. Will that fact be taught? Second, Same document, Page 8, lines 186-187: "Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege." Once again this statement of fact is in fact not factual, but it is anti-Semitic per se. Why would we teach children such nonsense?
These examples were plucked at random but are representative of the document being replete with "lessons" for our children to learn that are so slanted as to engender victimhood on behalf of some students leading to hatred of other students. It would seem that a better goal would be e pluribus unum, that would work to unite rather than divide along racial, gender, ethnic and any other lines. We in American have American Privilege and our students should be taught how to embrace and use that advantage. I volunteer to work on a more useful iteration.

You may contact me as follows: Mark Harding

