From: Kera Collins Sent: Friday, September 4, 2020 9:23 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Revised Draft Comments
Dear CDE:
I have spent some significant time reviewing the revisions proposed by your department and I am highly concerned about the blatant disregard for truth, facts, and accuracy by introducing this to young impressionable children and college students.
Let's be honest. Black Lives Matter continues to be one of the most violent and historical "terrorist movements" in modern history, if not in all history.
I encourage you to visit their website where their mission statement openly admits they do not support the traditional home. They openly refuse to accept the elected, properly justice system and will stop at nothing to make sure they are "heard".
While by all accounts, this seems like a just movement that encourages activism, their actions prove otherwise. Just look at chicago, seattle, portland, minneapolis. ALL lovingly accepted by this movement and have costs lives (straight murder), countless businesses losses, and injuries.
I do not want, or will allow, my children to be taught a farse by which you attempt to identify this movement. In fact, you actually label it as an "effective movement". The only effect this movement has had is negative.
Want me to believe that I'm wrong? I won't do that. Ive physically been present when these rioters have violently attacked friends and family in front of me. I have seen them destroying the windows of businesses that belong to hard working owners who come from a variety of colored backgrounds.
The only movement this blacklivesmatter can be called, is a terrorist movement. If you intend to identify this movement as what it truly is, then I will keep my children in public schools. Otherwise, while you're lying to the public, not only will I keep my children from public schools, I will do everything in my power to make sure everyone knows how much lying you're doing.
Every life matters. Every person matters. Everyone matters. Period. To highlight a terrorist organization like blacklivesmatter, then make sure you include ISIS and the Taliban. Make sure they are under the same teaching topic "terrorist organizations".
Kera Collins A california resident, parent, business owner, friend and family of people who's lives have been ruined by terrorist organization blacklivesmatter.

