Public Input Template-2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations)
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.qov. You may contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.qov with any questions regarding this template or the public input process.
	

Your Name and Affiliation[Enter Your Name] [Enter the agency, organization, or business that you represent, if applicable.]:
Elliott Lavey M.D.

Chapter of Model Curriculum [Enter the Chapter Number here, or just “General” for a comment that applies to the entire document.]:
Glossary

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) [Include the page and line number(s) here-Write your comment here]:
Page 2: Requesting removal of BDS and other anti-Israel bias from the model curriculum. I urge the State to add lessons about American Jews as an ethnic group, including those who fled the Holocaust, oppression in the Middle East, and discrimination in the former Soviet Union.
Examples of bias in the proposed curriculum: the introduction of the proposed curriculum states that, “the implementation of the Ethnic Studies Presents an Opportunity for Teachers to Enable Students to Develop a Deep Appreciation for Cultural Diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate and racism.” Despite this stated goal, the curriculum does not feature a single lesson about the Jewish community, mentioning Jews only in passing. With anti-semitism rising and ignorance about the Jewish people still a major problem in our society, the exclusion of Jews from this curriculum is deeply disappointing. The Holocaust is being forgotten.


Chapter of Model Curriculum:
Body of document

Comment:
p. 234 Encourages teachers to highlight BDS and a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine, but no voice is critical of their perspectives. Promotes a false equivalence between Israel’s efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people and U.S. policies and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico.
p. 237 Uses unclear language that implies "Israel-Palestine” as a whole is an Arab country.
p. 242 Frames the Palestinian narrative of the 1948 War as fact, with no alternative perspectives. p. 256, 264-269 Encourages teachers to use a poem featuring harsh criticism of Israel, but no content offering a positive perspective about Israel or criticism of Palestinian leaders.
California Department of Education, June 2019