To: Superintendent Tony Thurman
From: Lydia Forbes August 9th,2019
Ethnic studies
Dear Superintendent Thurman,
I find this proposed "mandated" guide as referred to in the Wall Street Journal (7/30/19) to be misguided. The CED has requested opinions, which is admirable, thus here is mine. Thank you for the opportunity.
The suggested ethnic studies curriculum should be deleted. It is a political-ploy which seeks to falsify the reality of America and further the power of those who seek financial benefits to themselves. They don't want capitalism because these politicians want to run a government which would control all aspects of American life. They don’t want any private business, private housing, personal choice or freedom of belief or religion. They want to define people by and into race, age, and gender, which is a complete distortion of how our country was founded, grew and became the beacon of individual rights: and freedom that is still flourishing today. Why do we have so many immigrants at our borders? Because they know they will have a better life here - they will have support and freedom of choice. The fundamental belief is that of the "melting pot" -that we are all Americans, and we help each other.
We must fight the politicians who want to keep the African-Americans oh welfare for the next 20 generations, thinking them so weak as to riot be able to build communities or successful lives of their own. These politicians want to exploit the minorities for votes, and then suppress their capabilities.
Why would the CED want to put students in false "ethnic" cubbyholes for ruthless politicians to use for polling purposes and votes? Let these students find their own identities by studying successful leaders who are NOT criminals, not cop killers! Martin Luther King, Abraham Lincoln, John F Kennedy, Tiger Woods, Shaq O'Neil, Maya Angelou, Toni Morisson, Oprah Winfrey, Dr. Ben Carson, etc. There are so many wonderful minority examples from African Americans, Hispanics, Chinese, etc. etc. in health care, law, business, sports, and the Arts who can inspire our students to be the very best they can be through talent, and hard work and optimism.
Teach our students how to read, do mathematics, learn American history of the Founding Fathers, the Civil War, the two World Wars, and how the Americans, working with Allies, brought an end to the horrors of the Holocaust.
No human is an island, all humans are related through our DNA, let us teach our students to love each other.
Respectfully,
Lydia Forbes

State Superintendent of Public Instruction
AUG- 15 2019