APIs for Ethnic Studies

July 9, 2019

State Board of Educaton California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Re: CA Model Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Board of Educaton Members:
On behalf of APIs for Ethnic Studies, a group dedicated to promoting relevant education and faculty in Asian American Studies (AAS), we write to support the work of the Model Curriculum Advisory Committee. We endorse the curriculum overall and appreciate the changes made to the Asian American unit.
The guiding principles to any Ethnic Studies curriculum for California public high schools needs to interweave "holistic humanization and critical consciousness," as recommended by the model curriculum. These twin values recognize the cultural wealth of communities while also critiquing the multiple oppressions facing groups. Both are necessary for student to develop empathy, selfdetermination, and values of social justice and equity.
We are concerned that there is only one UC approved high school class in all of California for Asian American Studies and hope that California school districts will be encouraged to develop more high school UC approved Asian American Studies classes. In the long run, we hope that you will help to set up innovative programs for high school teachers throughout the state, especially those from school districts with more limited resources, to access the valuable Ethnic Studies curriculum which individual school districts throughout California have developed with public funds. A central database established by the California Department of Education would be helpful for such access.

Sincerely,

Prof. Angie Fa Chair, City College of SF AAS

Prof. Timothy Fong Director, CSU Sacramento AAS

Prof. Russell Jeung Chair, San Francisco State University AAS

Prof. Robyn Rodriguez Chair, UC Davis AAS

Prof. Genevieve Leung Chair, University of San Francisco APA Studies

Prof. Chrissy Lau CSU Monterey Bay History Department

Prof. Yvonne Kwan San Jose State AAS

