JPAC Board of Directors
Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles
Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco
Jewish Community Relations Council of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, Sonoma, Alameda, and Contra Costa Counties
Jewish Family Service of Los Angeles
Jewish Family and Children's Services of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, and Sonoma Counties
Jewish Family Service of San Diego
Jewish Federation of San Diego
Jewish Federation of Greater Long Beach and West Orange County
Jewish Federation of Silicon Valley
Jewish Community Relations Council Sacramento
Jewish Federation of Greater Santa Barbara
Jewish Federation and Family Services of Orange County
Jewish Family and Community Services, East Bay
Anti-Defamation League
American Jewish Committee
30 Years After
Jewish Labor Committee Western Region
Hadassah
ETTA Ohel
Bet Tzedek
Jewish Center for Justice
JVS So-Cal
Jewish Family Services, Silicon Valley
The Los Angeles Museum of the Holocaust

July 23, 2019
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair, Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear Ms. Chao:
On behalf of the Jewish Public Affairs Committee of California (JPAC), we appreciate the work of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee (MCAC) in producing a multi-chapter CA 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) draft. We greatly value the opportunity to comment on this draft. The enclosed review provides recommendations aimed at ensuring accuracy, inclusion, and pedagogical rigor for California's students. Given that AB-331 would make a one-semester high school Ethnic Studies course a requirement for graduation in California, we believe it is all the more important to ensure that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is of the highest quality and adheres to California values, standards, and law.
JPAC is the largest single-state coalition of Jewish organizations in the nation. We advocate in Sacramento on behalf of our members, which are comprised of Jewish Federations, Jewish Community Relations Councils, Jewish Family Service agencies, and many Jewish community organizations.
We appreciate the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines, which set high standards of quality, accuracy, and inclusion for the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. However, the content and pedagogy of the current draft of the ESMC does not adhere to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines that require the curriculum to:
 "Be written in language that is inclusive and supportive of multiple users"  "Encourage cultural understanding of how different groups have struggled
and worked together, highlighting core ethnic studies concepts such as consciousness raising and knowledge building, identity development and self-determination, justice and social change, and love, respect"  "Be inclusive by creating space for all students regardless of race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, or citizenship to learn different perspectives"

We observed firsthand the exuberance of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee, whose meetings began with a unity chant. Unfortunately, that spirit did not translate into the draft, where we found content that is disunifying, exclusionary, and, at times, even delegitimizing. We ask that the IQC address these matters before sending the draft to the Board of Education for approval.
The latest California History-Social Science Framework directs that instructional content maintain academic rigor, historical accuracy, and consistency. The body of knowledge presented in classrooms should not be prejudicial, and must be balanced, so that our students can develop the reasoning, problem-solving, communication, and analytical thinking skills necessary for the future. The model curriculum must adhere to California Education Code sections 60044 and 51500, which explicitly prohibit instructional materials and instruction that reflect or promote discriminatory bias on "the basis of race or ethnicity, gender, religion, disability, nationality, or sexual orientation, occupation." At present, due to errors of omission and commission, the current ESMC draft threatens both sections of the Education Code for Jewish American students.
JPAC is writing on behalf of the following organizations: the Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, Sonoma, Alameda and Contra Costa Counties; the Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, and Sonoma Counties; the Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles; the Jewish Federation of Silicon Valley; the Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region; Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) of the Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region; Jewish Long Beach (formerly the Jewish Federation and Jewish Community Foundation of Long Beach and West Orange County); the Jewish Federation of the Greater San Gabriel and Pomona Valleys; and the Jewish Federation of Ventura County.
Our organizations are grateful to you, the members of the Instructional Quality Commission, for your consideration of the recommended changes detailed in the enclosed review. Thank you for your commitment to accurate and representative education for all California students. We appreciate your timely attention to this matter. We look forward to participating in the process and appreciate the opportunity to provide input.
Sincerely,
Lynn Bunim Chair Jewish Public Affairs Committee of California (JPAC)
Julie Zeisler Executive Director Jewish Public Affairs Committee of California (JPAC)

Abigail M. Porth Executive Director, Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC), of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, Sonoma, Alameda and Contra Costa Counties
Danny Grossman CEO, Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, and Sonoma Counties
Jay Sanderson President, The Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles
Diane Fisher Director, Community Relations Council, Jewish Federation of Silicon Valley
William Recht Executive Director, Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region
Bruce Pomer Chair, Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC), Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region
Jason Moss Executive Director, Jewish Federation of the Greater San Gabriel and Pomona Valleys

Zachary M. Benjamin Chief Executive Officer, Jewish Long Beach (formerly the Jewish federation and Jewish Community of Long Beach and West Orange County)
Cheri DeKofsky Executive Director, Jewish Federation of Ventura County
Cc: The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction The Honorable Jose Medina, Assembly member The Honorable Ben Allen, State Senator, IQC member The Honorable Jessie Gabriel, Assembly member The Honorable Patrick O'Donnell, Assembly member Jamie Callahan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Governor Karen Stapf Walters, Executive Director of the California State Board of Education Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Education Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Director, Instructional Quality Commission, and Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Performance, Planning & Technology Branch Sarah Neville-Morgan, Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Teaching & Learning Support Branch Dr. Kenneth McDonald, Lead Consultant for the 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

