From: weberw Sent: Tuesday, July 30, 2019 7:19 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Feedback on Ethnicity Model Curriculum
The word "Racist" was less used 30 years ago. Today the word "Racist" dominates most conversations at least within political and media circles. "Racist" back then usually referred to a person who targets a specific demographic group based on gender, race or religion. One definition of "Racism" defined by Webster is a "belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a race." An example of this would be targeting groups of white, straight, males that have "White Privilege." That would have been considered "Racist" back then.
Today it seems like the word "Racist" only apply to a specific minority groups and "White Straight Males" are excluded from receiving the benefits of this definition.
The word "Racist" is not only becoming overused, watered down but weaponized to include anyone they disagree with. It has even more power if the person who you are arguing against is a "Straight White Male."
If society keep moving in this direction, how will we know when a real "Racist" comes along or are they already here? Based on the Webster's definition "racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race." Can we apply "Inherent Superiority" to those people who align themselves in "Political Correctness Groups? They often silence anyone who disagrees with them and feel a certain "Inherent Superiority" by calling people on the other end of the spectrum "Racist".
To avoid going down the "Racist Slippery Slope" we must discriminate with clarity and conciseness who the real "Racists" are. And if someone cannot clearly differentiate who a "Racist" is then take the high road and leave the name calling out of the news and political conversations. When President Trump disagrees with the "Squad" he is called a "Racist" but we need to reexamine the frequency and legitimacy of this word. The more we leave out the word "Racist" from our disagreements the better our discussions will be since we will rely on another skill set like promoting thoughtful exchanging of ideas with each other.

