From: Dana Juncker Sent: Tuesday, July 30, 2019 11:41 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Sample Course Models
Attn: Instructional Quality Commission Re: Ethnic Studies Sample Course Model, Ch. 2 Ch. 2, Sample Course Models, Starting with line 331, "exploring Privilege"
Was this written by a member of the oxymoron Antifa? Beside being riddled with contradictory language and thought, I have to point out the section that is so abhorrent. "Exploring Privilege". It begins on line 331.
It starts out by discussing privilege and how certain people have it and others don't. Then it goes on to have the kids create a bio and play a game of moving forward/backwards based on race, color, gender. It's so appalling. I'm just imagining this taking place in a classroom. I find it despicable that a teacher would tell a child he/she is poor or hasn't been successful because of Billy, who's white and so privileged. It's divisive, racist and sexist beyond belief, puts kids in categories they have no place being in and damaging. I could go on and on. It even goes on to quote Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez as someone to listen to!???
I can't express enough how this type of teaching is damaging. It's being written by 1960's teachers who are not respecting this generation. Stop clumping all white people in to the same category. Light colored skin people come from all over the world and certainly don't have privilege. To not even consider light colored skin people as having a "culture" is sickening. Why are they being separated out as the oppressive ones without culture?
Yes, success takes time. It's not won overnight. Successful people give their kids a leg up in life-that is a gift not a privilege. Sometimes those kids run with the leg up or they fall flat on their face. Then the gift is wasted and does not continue to the next generation. It has nothing to do with race, color, culture, gender anymore. Today, it's about hard work, determination, god given smarts and hopefully smarts taught by well thought teachers. Quite teaching kids they are born with a skin color handicap. Quite teaching white kids they did something wrong and need to apologize for it. It's damaging.
I have a 12 and 13 year old girls. Based on this document I should be teaching them that this is a man's world, they have been born with a handicap of being female and been born an automatic racist because they're white. It's so twisted and damaging.
Hopefully California can rethink it's approach to teaching the past, because it is the past. Today is full of opportunity for everyone. Self reliance, positivity, positive communal activity such as trash clean-ups, helping the elderly, entrpaneurship. All positives. Not this race bating, hating, finger pointing ideology.
Sincerely,
Dana Juncker (a white mother full of culture and not a drop of privilege)

