From: [email address redacted for privacy] Sent: Tuesday, July 30, 2019 2:18 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comment on Curriculum as Currently Written
I have read thru much of the Model Curriculum that is being proposed for the Ethnic Studies and find it to be very biased. At a minimum, as this is the 1st version of this Model, the material should be written in a more centrist manner. As it stands now, the material would have be considered "left-wing". Can it be said the people writing this come from varied idealistic backgrounds? The spectrum should have people from the far left to the right, but the centrist representatives should be more in number as any good public policy has. Remember this state has all kinds and the minority voice should be heard as much as any majority voice.
The overall premise of the program is a good one, but I do not feel the material as written is representative of the standard view on the subject amongst Californians and certainly not the USA as a whole. As written I see many districts and schools opting out of its use and the reason for it being a model in the first place is not carried out in the intended manner.
As one example, talking about capitalism as being "oppressive"is a disservice to our state, country, and world. With all it's warts capitalism is the best system the world has ever known and countries that have adapted it have brought more of their people out of poverty than any other system has. Of course it still has issues that need to be continually worked on, but it is still the best of the systems out there. It should be celebrated. It should certainly at a minimum never have "oppressive" around it. It's not hard to see for example that Costa Rica is the longest running capitalist democracy in all of Latin America and its use of the capitalism system which has led to their citizens having some of the best wealth per capita in all of Latin America. No other system as shown by Venezuela, Cuba, Brazil, Argentina can say this as all their systems at one time or another went away from capitalism or didn't encourage capitalism as much which stunts the whole process.
I find other topics such as sub prime loans, native American value systems, bilingual education for the sake of it instead of a bridge towards singular language education all to be misrepresented. I find much of the curriculum will lead to the encouragement of identify politics, which as a country we should be trying to move away from. We certainly should not be encouraging it as the material, as written, does.
As I see this now the writers are in an echo chamber and as well intentioned they are, this is not serving the state well.
Thank you.
California Citizen with 2 Kids About to Enter Public Education

