From: DONNA ZUCKER Sent: Wednesday, July 31, 2019 4:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: AB-331Public input; unable figure out how to send from webpage
I am responding with considerable thoughtfulness and reflection from my 35 year career as a KAdult Ed. teacher; Department Chair; Curriculum Development. I urge you to amend this document. While Ethnic Studies is laudable and essential to the full development of our our nation's youth, there are some striking concerns in AB-331. The curriculum laudably, covers concerns of diversity in the context of our country's protected privilege and lack of opportunity. These truths are grounded in our society's long history of prejudice: hatred, fear, ignorance of the other. The fact that anti-Semitism is not recognized within the focused list, is painfully troubling. Note: In the United States, Jewish children are/were subjected to verbal and/or physical violence by their peers and teachers; were refused in colleges;targets of random and deliberate anti-Semitic violence; once refused mortgages throughout US cities, work and career opportunities, membership in civic and public organizations. The existence of anti-Semitism in the United States is frightfully prevalent today. The absences of anti-Semitism is additionally glaring due to the curriculum's inclusion of BDS as a "social movement" in its objective to highlight avenues of active participation as a solution to injustice of minority groups. This imbalance is providing a target to foster prejudice of Jews. Additionally, Israel's population and government has no relevance to the prejudices ingrained in our society towards targeted groups. The concerns of the Israeli government are the topic of an entirely different subject, ie. "Political Science". Students fulfilling this requirement will present high school administrators with prejudicial behavior, enter society at large and/or colleges, having had their point of view skewed and their prejudicial rhetoric at the ready to further propagate anti-Semitism in our society and college campus life. I must confess, given my long career as a deeply devoted and caring teacher for our nation's children, I would be deeply distressed being presented with this program; I would, with good conscience and conviction, refuse to present this to my students as written, and act urgently to affect my colleagues in questioning this curriculum. Tomorrow's world is born in what we teach our children today. A biased curriculum plants the seed for resentment, hatred, and violence. Thank you for your kind consideration to this vital concern.

