From: Richard Case Sent: Wednesday, July 31, 2019 12:40 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies comment
Hello, I think the idea of splitting Americans into small groups which is really what you're talking about
when you speak of ethnic studies, has it's place but no where near in the context you're speaking of. The context no doubt, is that you're a victim and it's harder for you to be successful because ot the color of your skin. You teach kids to be victims an it's disgusting and not a truth whatsoever. Are you going to pair the discussion with one of the Constitution, and the 1st Amendment? Are you going to study the millions of people who come here, legally I might add, because they believe in free markets, and the equal opportunity every one has here in America?
Are you going to teach that all Americans are at Liberty to dislike whomever they want to dislike? We seem to be most comfortable when we're hanging out with people that come from the same cultures. Why do you think there are different ethnic neighborhoods throughout our cities and country? But when we go outside, we're Americans of various descents. We're not Someone hyphen American. What we need to teach is if you don't like someone, you still must respect them because in America, we all have the same opportunities in the Civil Society. So this Ethnic Studies must be paired with this idea of the Civil Society, of all of us going about our days doing what we do, and know no one group is any better than the next. We are all Americans first, WITHOUT, the Hyphens I know you 'educators' really want to place on us all. Now,
Where is your curriculum on our history of free market capitalism? Where is your curriculum on The Bill of Rights and the Written Constitution? Where are the Civics classes? You have done an absolute terrible job of giving a rounded education to our children, when you're not spending considerable time on Civics and the Constitution, as written, not your Living Constitution that can be interpreted in any manner you Socialists want to interpret it as.
I doubt free market capitalism will even come up considering you're paid no matter how bad a job you do, and maybe it's time to take the taxpayer's money out of the education field, and instill free market capitalism instead. Maybe our kids will become well rounded thinking adults. Rich Case

