From: Blue Murov Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 5:39 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies
Ethnic Studies is a very important component of education for the 21st century.
I live in Pacifica, CA. I am Jewish, have been for all my 71 years and I believe that it is necessary that a module on Arab-Americans be included in the Ethnic Studies curriculum. The impact of Islamophobia and the Arab-American experience is rarely taught in schools.
During the period of public comment on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum a wide range of Israel-aligned, Zionist organizations have publically attacked the curriculum for being antisemitic and anti-Israel. But they do not speak for the entire Jewish community.
It's very important to teach students about antisemitism and about Jewish American history and that history is already present in the California standards. In addition, there exists a Model Curriculum for Human Rights and Genocide which covers the Holocaust and other instances of genocide. The model Ethnic Studies curriculum includes mention of antisemitism as as a distinct form of social oppression related to others such as racism, sexism and anti-Arabism.
The purpose of the model Ethnic Studies curriculum is to center the history of people of color who have been marginalized or ignored by the current curriculum. Curriculum about Arab-Americans is not antisemitic. Arabs have been coming to the United States since before it was formed as nation.
Pro-Israel, Zionist organizations are trying to shut down diverse perspectives on how Israel treats Palestinians, claiming that as anti-semitism. Relevant history that includes a discussion of the Nakba, or "catastrophe", in the module on Arab-Americans, is not anti-semitic. (The Nakba refers to the forced displacement of approximately 750,000 Palestinians that began before Israel's establishment in 1948, and that continues to this day.)
Racism, Islamophobia and antisemitism are on the rise today in the United States. It's important to recognize that our common enemy is white supremacy and that our safety as communities will come through solidarity with each other.
Thank you,
Julie Starobin

