From: lvanherk Sent: Wednesday, July 31, 2019 9:37 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic studies class need to go
This new ethnic course is crazy!!!!!! As educators our jobs are not supposed to be about brain washing students to think one why, it is about teaching them the facts without our beliefs connected to this information. If you think having students learn that capitalism is connected to oppression and white supremacy is stupid. You are creating a world of division and hate. Having criminals being praised for what they did and how they tried to change the world will only bring more destruction which we already have. If you are going to create an ethnic course then don't you think you need to have every culture represented? Our government needs to stop wasting money on this crap and start using the money to make sure how children can read, write, and complete math problems. They need to learn that if you want to succeed in life you need to work hard, be respectful to others, show kindness, and compassion where ever you go. You also need to teach our children that it is okay to disagree and still be respectful to others.
You need to go back to the drawing board and start with a whole new class.
Hey here is an idea why don't you create a high school class that teaches kids how to get ready for the real word, by balancing banks accounts, finding jobs, and understanding that you will start at the bottom and work your way up at whatever job you get. You can also teach them that no job is beneath them, how to be respectful the elders, and how to interact with others not through a screen. Stop teaching these kids to constantly look for handouts, A good one is teaching them to treat each other kindly and to stop bullying and leaving people out of activities through social media. The best teaching lesson you can provide for students is that you should not believe everything you see or read on the internet. To remind them that liars figure and figures lie.
I really hope this helps change your mind and please stop wasting my tax money on crappy classes that make white people look like monsters

