From: Miriam Stone Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 8:02 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Anti-Semitism in proposed 'Ethnic Studies' program for California High Schools
As a retired California teacher of 35 years standing I am appalled by the anti-semitism ingrained in this proposed 'ethnic studies' program. I began my career as a T.A. for 3 years with the Los Angeles County's Special Education Division. Following that, for 2 years I worked as a Project Head Start preschool teacher for Indian Center West in Culver City working with the Urban Native American population of the Los Angeles area. For the next 28 years I worked as a teacher, Title I Coordinator and Gifted and Talented Program Coordinator with L.A.U.S.D. as follows: 1 year teaching at Beethoven Children's Center in West Los Angeles, 7 years teaching at 135th Street Elementary, 5 years teaching at Robert E. Peary Middle School in the Gardena strip of Los Angeles ( which included my 1 year out of classroom position as the school's Title 1 Coordinator ) , 2 years teaching at Liberty Boulevard Elementary in South Gate, 13 years at South Gate Middle School in South Gate as a 6th Grade Teacher of History, Language Arts and 2 years as the school's Gifted and Talented Program Coordinator.
I lived overseas for 2 years in the Philippines in Baguio and Manila when I was young and 1 year in Cali, Colombia as a teenager. I am the daughter of a French immigrant who arrived in 1918, age 9 and speaking no English, the family running from the German shelling of Paris in WW 1 and an anti-semitic quota system in France that would have made it unlikely that my father would have been able to attend a French university. I have witnessed and experienced bigotry of all kinds because of both my family background and the bigotry that I have seen leveled at my students - who have almost all been minority group members.
As such, I am well positioned to recognize bigotry whenever and wherever I see it; I call it out and vigorously oppose it whenever I see it - and this proposed program is a blatant and dangerous example of a particularly virulent bigotry. This kind of bias is exactly what an ethnic studies program should be designed to eliminate certainly not ever promulgate. There is a difference in opposing the policies of Mr. Netanyahu and the wiping out of the entire historic, ongoing and CURRENT rampant anti-semitism which just killed so many in Pittsburgh and has killed and oppressed millions upon millions of the Jewish people throughout recorded history, if indeed that is what the intent behind the writers of this `program' are trying to push. .
If this is passed through, I will do everything in my power to make certain that the Los Angeles Unified School District NEVER lets this ` program' see the light of day in the classrooms where I spent my long career trying to teach the eradication of hatred and bigotry of the kind this 'program' supports.
Respectfully.
Miriam A. Stone

