From: Gal Bigaleizn Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 11:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Arab studies curriculum to cause anti-semitism and an unsafe learning environment for Jewish students
Hello Sir/Madame,
My name is Gal, an Israeli American. I moved to the United States of America 20 years ago with my parents.
I have been very happy with the acceptance of Americans of other cultures- this country and culture melting pot has become my home.
I recently reviewed the proposed ethnic studies curriculum, specifically the Arab Studies and Anti-Semitic agenda proposed by BDS, which got me very concerned for the safety of my children and the Jewish community.
My two boys were born here and grew up as Americans. They feel they belong, and they see everyone as equal. They are not seeing race or color, instead they are seeing friends that have much in common with.
Teaching a one-sided extremist agenda in school will promote a conversation about what's different about them, rather than acceptance of the other, and it will put them in an unsafe position by increased anti-semitism that some students are already feeling due to strong family or community opinions. Rather that teaching equality and love for the other, this part of the curriculum would be promoting hate.
This is such a sensitive subject because both sides have suffered loss. And by bringing in strong and extreme political views to the mainstream education, the board of education will be picking sides and as a result hurting Jewish students, who are also a minority and will be negatively affected.
Allow children to form their own opinions rather than choosing such a strong position about an already delicate subject.
Israel has offered so much to the world, from medical solutions, agriculture, computer science, transportation, space technology and offering humane support after natural disasters around the world. And so much more...
The one sided agenda will potentially brainwash students to boycott a country that has been a supporter of America and a helpful hand to the rest of the world. It would be a disservice to so many Jewish Americans who are proud to be living in the USA and also have cultural roots Israel, its long term ally.

We hope you will remove the BDS-promoted extremist material from our public school Ethnic Studies curriculum and honor the children's safety and we'll-being first. Instead choose to focus on ethnic movements that will make our kids feel powerful and strong, rather than scared.
Thank you for your consideration. I truly hope you will take this decision seriously and consider it's effects on the public education system in California.
Sincerely,
Gal Bigaleizn Mother to Adee and Avior And a concerned citizen

