From: George Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 11:37 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Review of ethnic studies for K-12
I do not find this curriculum beneficial to any of our public education students. The material does not include a complete and full accountability of who we are as United State citizens. --Americans American government / civics and American History was the curriculum to guide and teach the student about our rights and duties as a U.S. citizen and how we formed the government and nation we have today. The Ethnic Studies curriculum as described only emphasizes just one part and only a select few groups of people. Why limit it to a select few? As an educator it is one of our duties to develop a student to be not only a life long learner but to help them think critically. A student can not develop those skills unless an educator encourages all sides of an issue be throughly researched before coming to a conclusion, especially to then suggest to the student to make an impact in the community in which they live. -- all sides need to be researched without prejudice before an action is implemented. Many questions came to mind as I was reading the review--here are a few of them -- Where are the positive role models in each "ethnic" group? How did these individuals/ groups overcome the odds to succeed. Wouldn't this give those students a sense of hope? What about how America has given freedom to so many people and continues to fight for equality for all-- never experienced before in the history of the world. Capitalism and our values have played a vital role. Yes, we have made mistakes but to only emphasize those mistakes only creates a sense of hopelessness or bitterness. It separates and divides us-- As US citizens we share common values and a cultural heritage as well as our unique qualities as human beings. Wouldn't that show the students a common bond of who we are as Americans. A melting pot of many different ethnicities. To only instruct one side is indoctrination and is dangerous we must get back to giving our students an education which includes a complete picture of all the facts so students can think on their own-- that will empower our future leaders. Respectfully submitted , Linda Morris Retired Educator

