From: rwasserman Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 9:15 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Dr. Ronald B. Wasserman Subject: Comments on Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Thank you for reading my following comments and taking them into consideration.
I have strong reservations regarding several aspects of this Model. However, my primary concern is the blatant anti-Semitism that is evident by what has been included and excluded from this Proposed Curriculum
1. Excluded is any mention of Jews as a minority that fulfills the criteria for being included in the curriculum. Jews have been persecuted in other countries and come as refugees and have contributed to this country from the onset. Jews are the target of 58.1% of religious hate crimes nationwide in 2017. With the condoning of the ultra-right by our president, this percent has increased by 21% in California in 2018. (FBI has not released nationwide 2018 data).
2. If there is an oppressed minority, that should be studied, it is Jews. Jews have in large part succeeded in the U.S. in spite of these prejudices. Maybe there are things that others could learn from the Jewish experience in the U.S. - both positive and negative.
3. Included in this Proposed Curriculum is the Demonization of Israel. This is remarkable because it is the ONLY Foreign country that is portrayed solely in a negative light throughout all the models that I reviewed in this paper. Israel is mentioned (somewhere around page 242) only in the context of a Disaster for the Palestinians. World War II and the subsequent years was a time of displacement in every country of millions and murder of millions. Why is only Israel singled out? What about Jews kicked out of Arab countries (Did you know that during that period 800,000 Arab Jews were forced from Arab countries and those who stayed behind were killed?)
4. Why Include the BDS Movement as a positive model (Page 232-233; Boycott, Sanction, Divest from Israel)? Why not include the abuse of women in many parts of the world and advocate for BDS from these countries? Why not focus on Syria's abuse of the Yazidis or Kurdish? Or Myanmar's persecution of the Rohingya Muslims?
5. Why demonize Israel when it is a legitimate democracy that has 17% Muslim population that can and does vote? The only democracy that has a larger percent of voters being Muslim is Indonesia.

Certainly all of the cited groups have stories and histories worth knowing and understanding. But so do the Jews. If this Proposed Curriculum stands as is, it is anti-Semitic by what has been excluded and what has been included.
Respectfully,
Ronald B. Wasserman

