From: Rachel Rosner Sent: Saturday, August 10, 2019 8:44 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Please Do Not Institutionalize Anti-Semitism nor Eliminate Jews from Ethnic Studies in California
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am extremely upset by the proposed unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but strongly urge you to make major revisions or do a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
The curriculum as it stands is indefensible especially in the context of rising antisemitism in America and on college campuses.
The ESMC omits any mention of antisemitism though there are three times as many hate crimes in America against Jews as against Muslims. The most recent FBI statistics record 938 antisemitic incidents and 273 Islamophobic incidents. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics, accounting for over half of religiousbased hate crimes in the United States. Though a great deal of curriculum is devoted to Islamophobia, there is absolutely none devoted to anti-Semitism.
I have 2 Jewish sons in the California public school system and they absolutely deserve to feel safe and included as they go to school each day and when they eventually go to college. I am deeply concerned that the proposed curriculum--which also denigrates both Jews and Israel--is unacceptable and would compromise their safety and inclusion.
Further the curriculum supports the antisemitic BDS movement. As Asad AbuKalil, Professor of Political Science and BDS leader at the University of California has said, "The real aim of BDS is to bring down the State of Israel." As educators we strive to teach our students to consider all sides of an issue, to see and understand the many perspectives that make up the complex issues in our world, and to think critically about the problems presented. The biased and one sided perspective that the curriculum presents is not representative of the kind of education that happens in high quality schools.
Again, I strongly urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you for your consideration of these very important issues.
Respectfully,

Rachel Rosner Educator, Parent, Citizen Menlo Park, California

