From: Jan Galicot Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 2:26 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Very worried about change in curriculum
Dear Educators and Administrators,
Attached is my feedback on the proposed ethnic studies curriculum. By way of this email and the attached, I am respectfully asking you to modify the proposed curriculum in a number of important ways.
To remove all references, in particular positive references, to the antisemitic BDS campaign, which is a campaign that targets only one state in the world for destruction, the one Jewish state, Israel. It is an intentional and uniquely evil and divisive campaign, whose self-described purpose is to de-legitimize and ultimately destroy the only democratic state in the Middle East, the only state in the Middle East where all citizens regardless of ethnicity, faith, gender or sexual preference have full and equal civil rights. The only state in the Middle East that has not known one second of non-democratic rule, despite also not knowing one second of peace.
To include additional information that will present a balanced perspective (in stark contrast to the onesided perspective offered in this proposed curriculum) about both Israel and the Arab-Israeli conflict.
To add important information about antisemitism and the bigotry/hatred that Jews face both as individuals and as a collective, including with respect to the growing demonization of the Jewish movement for self-determination and sovereignty in their indigenous homeland (known as Zionism). I have raised three children in CA and have one teenager left in a CA public high school.
It is my strong view that feel that the failures in this curriculum will create a highly charged, negative environment that will make Jewish children who understand their history and identity feel targeted and perhaps even unsafe in the growing antisemitic environment we are seeing today in America, including sadly on many high school and college campuses.
Thank you in advance for considering this feedback.
Yours, Jan Galicot

