From: Lorri Holzberg Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 1:43 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Revise current proposed ethnic studies curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very much concerned by the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I totally support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others. It is very important to include antiSemitism in the curriculum as anti-Semitism needs to be constantly remembered. Only 80 years ago was the beginning of the extermination of Jews in Europe. Europe still has not recovered from the effects of the Holocaust.
As a child in the 1950's in Chicago and then Santa Barbara, I experienced anti-Semitism and I even experienced it at Cal in the early 60's.
I am very worried about the surge of white nationalist anti-Semitism as well as the growing anti-Semitism on US campuses.
The ESMC omits any mention of antisemitism though there are three times as many hate crimes in America against Jews as against Muslims. The most recent FBI statistics record 938 antisemitic incidents and 273 Islamophobic incidents. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics, accounting for over half of religious-based hate crimes in the United States. Though a great deal of curriculum is devoted to Islamophobia, there is absolutely none devoted to anti-Semitism. The proposed curriculum denigrates both Israel and Jews. The curriculum supports the antisemitic BDS movement. As Asad AbuKalil, Professor of Political Science and BDS leader at the University of California has said, "The real aim of BDS is to bring down the State of Israel."
Per California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter : We support diversity and inclusion, but oppose a curriculum that "erases American Jewish experience, fails to discuss antisemitism, reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, singles out Israel for criticism, and would institutionalize the teaching of antisemitic stereotypes in our public schools."
I strongly urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Lorri

