From: Kathy Glass Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 2:06 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Public Comment
To Whom It May Concern:
The new Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) contains an entirely necessary goal of building a shared understanding of minority groups' perspectives. However, it is greatly flawed and incomplete by omitting Jews from the groups mentioned. Furthermore, it reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews by containing clear indications of anti-Semitic biases, and it excludes anti-Semitism entirely. This is particularly shocking considering the number of hate crimes against California Jews has increased more than other minority groups in 2018. It simply must be passed in its present form.
Speaking as an educator, it seems negligent that the committee has not connected the History-SS content area standards to the ESMC, particularly 10.8.5: Analyze the Nazi policy of pursuing racial purity, especially against the European Jews; its transformation into the Final Solution; and the Holocaust that resulted in the murder of six million Jewish civilians. It is our duty to bring to light historical atrocities and indignities to teach our students not to repeat history.
Furthermore, chapter 15 of the CA History-SS Framework provides direction for grade 10 teachers around WWII and Hitler. Why did the committee not tiein examples related to these guiding questions that account for the persecution of Jews and other minorities that Hitler targeted? - How did the Nazis come to power? Why did ordinary people support them? (pp. 349-350) - How was the Holocaust carried out? (p. 349)
In this same chapter, the framework also suggests that students review "recorded testimonials of Holocaust survivors, and teachers can reach out to academic and publish institutions like the US Holocaust Memorial Museum to find ways to connect students to the Holocaust. Students may also examine instances of resistance to the Holocaust by Jews and others..." (pp. 354+). Why aren't these suggestions referenced? The committee could cite a host of resources for teachers, such as "The Hangman" by Maurice Ogden or Steven Spielberg's "Shoah Project." In fact, "The Hangman" has implications across the board for all marginalized groups.
I might also add that the examples in Chapter 2 are replete with questions that do not require students to return to a complex text and use it for the basis of their responses. The goal of an educator is to pose and use text-dependent questions within the curriculum based on appropriately challenging texts that

require students to analyze, examine, and interpret. Many questions rely on opinion with no textual basis as evidence. This is counter to the tenets of the Common Core and does not support our students to become critical thinkers based on salient text we need them to study.
Any Ethnic Studies curriculum should undoubtedly and emphatically include any oppressed people, including the Jews, lest it is incomplete. Furthermore, when teaching students about the Jewish people, it should be void of incendiary language, bias, and rhetoric that will invite persecution, bigotry, and prejudice. We need to teach tolerance and inclusion, which the current form of the curriculum has fallen short in doing by a grave degree.
Thank you, Kathy Glass

