From: Merwyn J Miller Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 11:34 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comment on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
I have reviewed the model curriculum. The purpose of this Curriculum is worthy, the execution is not. In fact, the curriculum appears to be anti-semitic.
I note that many minorities are covered. I note that Jews are mentioned sparingly and antisemitism is only mentioned once in approximately 400 pages of text. Given that hate crimes against Jews in this country are on the rise, some of them involving mass killings, this oversight is shocking if not intentional. Various anti-discrimination organizations are cited either for further reading or as authority; however, nowhere is the Anti-Defammation league cited (one of the oldest and one of the few, if not the only organization, that focuses on discrimininatino against Jews as well as other groups. The Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement for Palestine is included in a list of potential social movements for further research (Chp 2, page 36) but no where is an opposition reference given. This is surprising since the issue is complicated and both major US political parties oppose the BDS movement.
Rap songs are referenced. (Chp 2, page 273). In the Mansour verse it is stated that "They (Israel) use the press so they can manufacture...." This is an affront to Jews everywhere and has long been used to foment hatred of Jews for "controlling the press." While Palestinians may well have their perspective, it is certainly not the only perspective. Jews and Israel have theirs (and these two may not be identical). To teach only one viewpoint is not what education is supposed to be about and certainly not an Ethnic Studies curriculum that should be balanced and not foment hatred
For a curriculum that is supposed to be one to encourage tolerance and the appreciation of diversity, the subject curriculum is just the opposite. I object and am vehemently opposed to the curriculum in its present state.
--
Merv (Merwyn J) Miller, J.D., CLS-ETP

