From: Jennifer Anne Kennedy Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 11:28 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Tony Thurmond Subject: ESMC feedback and input!
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education:
I am reaching out to ask that you consider revisions to the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. The idea of adding this component to the CA standards is overall an excellent idea in propelling education forward in CA and teaching youth about the world around them.
I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but respectfully request that you please make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter and Stand With Us.
I am a teacher in the SF Bay Area and my husband is Jewish. I know a lot about Jewish culture and the religion, and it breaks my heart when hate crimes are inflicted upon people of ANY religion or background.
As I'm sure you've been hearing from other educators who are also emailing you, the ESMC omits ANY MENTION of anti-semitism, though there are three times as many hate crimes in America against Jews as against Muslims.
According to the most recent FBI statistics record, there were 938 antisemitic incidents and 273 Islamophobic incidents last year. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics, accounting for over half of religious-based hate crimes in the United States. Though a large portion of curriculum is devoted to Islamophobia, there is absolutely none devoted to anti-semitism. Do we not want the youth of today to know that followers of Judaism are being targeted and recipients of hate crimes? If we want our youth to step up and be upstanders, we need to let them know about all groups who are targeted.
With respect, I ask that you please consider making major revisions or perhaps a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns. The idea of adding this ethnic studies curriculum is so valuable and needed, so educators are grateful, but it needs to be balanced and inclusive. Thank you so much for your consideration.
Sincerely, Jennifer

