From: Anat Perelmuter-Peron Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 2:48 PM To: Superintendent Subject: CA new ethnic studies curriculum
The Honorable Tony Thurnond State Superintendent of public instructions
Dear Tony, From the wonderful videos and posts on your website, it's very clear that - you care. You care about our children's education, success future, and safety.
I'm writing to you as a CA resident and a very worried mom. The Department of Education California is creating a new ethnic studies curriculum. The curriculum does not recognize Jews as a minority in the US. Furthermore, it calls for boycotting Israel (in 3 different classes), attempt to explain the conflict in the middle east using a single-sided story, encourage aggression against Israelis, and spread hate against Israelis and jews.
We had over +200 mass shootings this year. Almost all of them directed towards minorities and many of them - directed towards Israelis and jews. I would not be able to sleep at night if I ever hear that the next shooter learned that "jews are bad" in these classes - I hope you wouldn't either. I will be terrified to send my kids to school knowing that their fellow students are thought that Israelis, jews (or African American or Latinos or Muslims) - are bad and we should boycott them. I hear of school bullying because of ethnicity is on the rise. I tear when I see a mass shooting in a synagog. I also tear when I see mass shooting in a mosque.
I don't know why the people that wrote the curriculum want to spread hate. In a program for ethnic studies more than anything. The last thing we need in California and the US in general - is more hate. We need more love. More respect. To all people and all minorities. So both you and I can send our kids to school and feel safe.
There are 300,000 jews living in California that will be directly affected if we spread hate against them. My children will have a much higher chance to get bullied just because they are Jewish. Is that the education system we want to build in CA?
If you really do care about the safety of our children - please act now. You are my public representative and I trust you would do so.
Will you help us?
Thank you, Anat Peron, mom of Hudson and Noa of Campbell, CA.

