From: Barembaum, Morrie Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 12:12 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: ESMC Input
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing comment on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I am a professor at a California Community College. I am the father of a student in a California High School. I have also taught in a California High School. The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is extremely considering to me.
Please see the attached detailed comments.
However, just to highlight one issue, in the Glossary, it does not define anti-semitism, but it does define BDS (page 2). In it, it refers to BDS as a protest against an "apartheid" regime. Classifying Israel, or Israel's handling of the Palestinian issues, as "apartheid" is a matter of opinion, not fact (as one would assume given it is declared as such in the glossary).
The Israel-Palesintian issue is a very complex issue. On a recent visit to Israel, our guide (but no means a hard right-winger) stated, reluctantly, that the (separation) wall works. Why did Israel erect this wall? Because Palestinians continued to enter Israel and bomb bus stops, pizza parlors, etc. Thus, it was for the safety of its citizens that Israel was forced to erect the wall.
If one wants to decry the living conditions in Gaza, one must ask where did the billions of dollars that the international community sends to Gaza go? One need only look at all the tunnels built by the Palestinians in Gaza to understand where the money goes. What's the purpose of these tunnels? To bypass all the security (from both Israel and Egypt) so that they can launch terror attacks.
There are Muslims who live in Israel - and are even Israeli citizens. They have all the rights of as Jewish Israelis. In fact, while Jews are required to serve in the military, Muslims are not - in case they are called upon to fight against other muslims. They are not precluded from service, but they are not required to. However, Muslims are allowed to vote, to serve in the Knesset (parliament), and to voice opposition to government policies.
While Israel allows Muslims to freely pray at their holy sites, Muslims restrict Jews from praying at their Jewish sites.
This does not sound like apartheid to me.

I would urge the commission to consider my comments as as the comments from the ADL, the Jewish Caucus, the LGBTQ caucus, and various editorials (hardly a listing of hard-right wing groups) as the commission reviews the ESMC. I would respectfully request that the commission work with the ADL to select additional scholars to work on rewriting the model curriculum to reflect a more balanced, scholarly, and inclusive view point.
Thank you for your time.
Respectfully,
Morrie Barembaum Professor of Astronomy Santiago Canyon College

