-----Original Message----From: David Weiner [mailto:weiner.davidj@gmail.com] Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 12:37 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: Tony@tonythurmond.com; Tony Thurmond <TThurmond@cde.ca.gov> Subject: Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am highly distraught by the flawed an unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
I was a victim of an anti-Semitic hate filled attack on a university campus in 1986. I stood outside a predominantly Jewish dormitory ("The Towers" in Madison, Wisconsin), while a belligerent person began insulting me calling me "dirty Jew" and began to assault me. Today, it is much worse. Jews all around the world are being beaten, spit on and insulted. From Paris to London to Berlin and across US universities, Jews are being intimidated and threatened under the fake guise of disagreement with the policies of the state of Israel. Your proposed curriculum only exacerbates a disturbing trend around the world and here at home in the USA. I moved to California because I thought it was an all-inclusive state that strives to defend the rights of all people, including Muslims, Coptic and other Christians, Buddhists, Hindus and Jews, etc. It is problematic to craft a model curriculum that does not protect Jews from the pervasive and historic ills of antisemitism. Making Jews feel unwanted in the USA will not change Israel's policies, but only embolden those hateful people in continuing to attack Jews across the world.
If you actually want to stop the hatred, I strongly urge you to make major revisions or a significantly rewrite the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you, David Weiner

