From: Sherrin Margolis Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 11:04 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: WTF?!
This "ethnic studies curriculum" is filled with propagandized brainwashing of impressionable students against Jews and Israel. It falsely presents the BDS movement as a legitimate political action group rather than the thinly veiled anti-Zionist and Jew-hating group it is.
It goes so far as to not even list Israel as it's own sovereign country ("Palestine/Israel" ?!)
Students are highly impressionable and thus easily brainwashed. The Ethnic Studies Committee has NO RIGHT to indoctrinate students with bias on such contentious topics. Bias political teachings have NO RIGHT to be in our classrooms presented with such authority to susceptible students.
Where's the curriculum covering Jewish-Americans: - Jewish stereotypes and history - Books and music illustrating the struggle of Jews - Racism and hate crimes against Jews - Jewphobia - Holocaust denial - Forced diaspora of Jews and denial of a Jewish homeland - Jew hatred hiding behind Pro-Palestinian groups - Denial of Israel as it's own sovereign homeland - Terrorist attacks on Jews, in American and in Israel - Jew-hating in the "intersectional" trend - Anti-Zionism embedded in Black Lives Matter, Womens' March, and Pride parades (pitting minorities against each other...let's kill two birds with one stone?!) - Aggression against Jewish students on campus
This curriculum teaches Jewish students to be shameful of their ethnicity which is exactly the OPPOSITE of what ethnic studies should be teaching. Jewish students are fearful to "reveal" their ethnicity!!
Jew hating is embedded EVERYWHERE!!! It is the most SYSTEMATICALLY racist "movement" in our society. Jew-hating has become so normalized that it doesn't even bother to be subtle anymore...it is so overt that soon it's going to actually be written into an ethnic studies curriculum...oh wait, that's exactly what's happening right now!!
This curriculum is so obviously political and illiberal. And on top of all the not-so-subtle-anymore Jewhating, you are teaching our diversely American children that capitalism is an oppressive power to be resisted?! I'm surprised it didn't specifically list Trump to blame for everything, too.
HOW DARE YOU teach our children to HATE each other and be ASHAMED OF THEIR ETHNICITY! YOU HAVE NO RIGHT to push your RACIST AGENDA ON MY KIDS!!
Jewish children will be singled out, bullied, attacked and MURDERED based on the ideology indoctrinated in this curriculum in our schools. Their fear, shame, and blood will be on your hands. Mark my words.

Sincerely, Sherrin Fraiman

