From: Craig P Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 11:49 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: New potential Ethnic Studies Curriculum
To Whom It May Concern,
My name is Craig Parks and I am the Director of Youth Programming at Temple Solel, a Reform Jewish congregation in San Diego. I work with hundred of youth every year using our Jewish values to teach them to pursue peace and have compassion for all of God's children as we all do our best to decrease hatred in our world. Just in recent months I have had to comfort the many youth I work with after our fellow Jews have been gunned down in Pittsburgh and here in San Diego. Anti-semitism has been on the rise as places of worship is hiring more and more security guards. It is my understanding that this new curriculum omits anti-semitism as a form of hatred. I would hope that you would not carry forward with a curriculum that does not educate our students about a sizable minority that is often the target of white nationalist hate and violence. Carrying forward with the proposed curriculum with give tacit consent to the type of hatred that our community has already been subjected to and now more than ever we need all marginalized communities to come together to speak out against hatred of all forms. Having an inclusive curriculum and not singling out one country like Israel or promoting a political movement like BDS will go a lot further towards the realization of the type of California we all dream of living in one day. Your goal of The implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to... enable students to develop a deep appreciation for cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism is a noble one. Failing to include the Jewish community works against that. My hope is that those who work with youth like myself in all communities will stop having to explain about horrible injustices and violence perpetrated against its people. Please let me know you received this and how the concerns of the Jewish community will be addressed. With gratitude, Craig

