Senator Scott Wiener, Chair Assemblymember Todd Gloria, Vice Chair President pro Tempore Toni Atkins Assemblymember Sabrina Cervantes Assemblymember Susan Eggman Senator Cathleen Galgiani Assemblymember Evan Low Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara
August 7, 2019
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair, Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear Chairwoman Chao and Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
We write to inform you that the California Legislative Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Caucus - comprised of LGBTQ legislators and statewide officers - has serious concern with the current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). We have enormous respect for the Instructional Quality Commission, which oversees an exhaustive and deliberative process for curriculum development, and we believe deeply in the critical importance of ethnic studies.
However, in its current form, the ESMC omits the American Jewish experience, ignores antiSemitism, and, indeed, institutionalizes the teaching of antisemitic stereotypes in our public schools. We cannot support such an extreme approach to a community that has experienced millennia of oppression, including genocide, and that continues to experience hate-based attacks in California and throughout the country and the world.
California's Legislative LGBTQ Caucus was formed in 2002 to create a forum for California Legislators to discuss issues that affect LGBTQ Californians, to promote LGBTQ-focused legislation, and to further the goal of equality and justice for all Californians. California was the first state in the country to form an official caucus of openly-LGBTQ state legislators.
An LGBTQ Caucus priority is advocating for diversity and inclusion of all people, especially our most marginalized populations. To that end, we believe it is incredibly important that the curriculum taught in our public schools not contribute to the marginalization or discrimination of any population. Without significant edits, we fear the ESMC will not meet this goal with respect to the Jewish community. We strongly urge you to reconsider and make serious adjustments to the curriculum.
Sincerely,

SCOTT WIENER Senator, 11th Senate District Chair, California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus

TODD GLORIA Assemblymember, 78th Assembly District Vice-Chair, California Legislative LGBTQ Caucus

Ms. Soomin Chao August 7, 2019 Page 2
CC: The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Jamie Callahan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Governor Karen Stapf Walters, Executive Director of the California State Board of Education Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Education Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Director, Instructional Quality Commission, and Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Performance, Planning & Technology Branch Sarah Neville-Morgan, Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Teaching & Learning Support Branch

