From: Jennifer Croshal Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 9:56 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Public Comment-Jewish American Experience
Good Morning and to whom it may concern:
I am VERY concerned to hear that the Jewish American experience has been ignored in the ethnic studies model curriculum and that a democratic country such as Israel has been targeted with one sided rhetoric to push a political agenda in public schools. As a parent and a California educated Jewish woman, I would be much more likely to pull my kids from the public school experience if I knew that this kind of education was being pushed on my child.
I do not want my son coming home to ask me why his ethnic group was not only ignored as a minority group, but his family living in Israel is portrayed in the educational material as people living in an apartheid state. To include no history of the state of Israel and the land and to use terms that push a political agenda like the "1948 Palestine War" and the "Nakba" is disgusting and biased in public education. I am so disappointed to hear that this passed its first draft stage and these items MUST be removed. I am so disappointed to hear that the Jewish immigrant experience in America has also been ignored. I still travel around the US and see relic signs that show that Jews were also not to be welcomed in certain areas of a building or certain stores.
Jewish Americans and all ethnic groups should be appreciated and acknowledged so that we can promote understanding, dialogue, safety, and freedom from bigotry. I have personally experienced ignorance in school against my ethnicity because I did not go to a school with a large Jewish population. My fellow classmates should have been educated more about us as an ethnic group to understand that we too were immigrants to the US and have had to struggle with assimilation, bigotry and being different.
I URGE you to change your draft to understand that leaving out Jews, Jewish people, and using disputed political terms against a Jewish state will only promote more hate and offensive behavior against my minority. Our synagogues and local schools here in Contra Costa County already have to be concerned with the safety and anti-semitic rhetoric that exists. I hope that moving forward in the future it is a goal to eliminiate that.
Sincerely, Jennifer S. Croshal

