From: Anna Paikow Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 9:07 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Regarding proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum
In my opinion, the Ethnic Studies curriculum proposal is antidemocratic, divisive, dishonest, hateful, and anti-Jewish.
I believe that the authors of this curriculum have a "Political Agenda" which does not represent intellectual rigor, thorough research of the complexities of Middle East history and current events, nor does it encourage students' acquisition of Objective Research, Critical Thinking, Problem-Solving, Positive Communication, and Empathetic Behavior skills.
It represents a lack of intellectual rigor and critical thinking regarding the topics of :
1 ~ The Jewish community as an ethnic minority, a community which throughout its 3,000+ years of history has suffered discrimination and prejudice, ghettoization, violence, pogroms, ethnic cleansing via murder and forced expulsio n from various nations and lands, forced conversion to other religions, and catastro phic genocide in the 20th century.
Tragically, the hate and prejudice continues to grow and spread throughout the world, even in countries which do not have a Jewish community.
This hateful disease is spreading throughout the United States and, in my opinio n, is evident in this curriculum proposal.
2 ~ 3,000+ years history of Jewish presence in Israel/Judea/Palestine. The Jewish people have lived in this region for more than 3,000 years.
3 ~ The topic of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should be addressed in a high school Modern World History class or a Current International Political Conflicts elective Social Studies course, and not in an Ethnic Studies class.
The topic of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should be taught by instructors who possess a thorough, objective educational background which represents "all sides"

of the conflict, and which encourages students to understand all the inherent co mplexities and to offer problem-solving suggestions ... instead of demonizing one community while at the same time glorifying another.
3. The topic of our country's Muslim community should be addressed as one of many ethnic communities who came here to have a "good life".
Our Muslim community represents a diversity of people who have immigrated from many different countries. They do not represent ONE homogenous entity.
A "good life" should not come at the cost of demonizing another ethnic community.
If the Calif. State Dept. of Education approves this biased curriculum, more hate, more inter-ethnic conflict, more tragic violence will ensue, and our precious democracy and representative government will suffer.
This curriculum must be revisited and revised to ensure that it is respectful of al l ethnic groups / communities and that it presents intellectually rigorous and nonbiased literacy and understanding.
A. Paikow Retired High School Teacher LAUSD

