From: Michael Morganstern Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 5:31 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Tony Thurmond 'Caryn Huberman' CFIRD Subject: PLEASE REWRITE THE ESMC
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am deeply upset by proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others. Israel itself has over two million Arab citizens who vote, are represented in the legislature (the Knesset), the courts and in many cases the army. Arab citizens of Israel have more rights than Arab citizens of any Arab country in the middle east. Arab women in Israel are not subject to honor killing as it is actually punished by law in Israel. And Israel's Christian Arab community are safer in Israel than in any Arab country. Israel with only 2 million Arabs graduates more Arab PhD's than all the Arab countries put together. And as for displaced Palestinians, more Jews had to leave their Arab countries than Palestinians that left (both voluntarily and involuntarily) during the 1948 war. Jews that had lived in Arab countries before the birth of Islam fled. In the the 1930's for example Baghdad was about 30% Jewish - a remainder of the Babylonian exile. Many fled and went to Israel and now comprise the majority of Israelis. Today there are a handful of Jews if any in Arab countries except for about 5000 in Morocco and about 23,000 in Iran. See the Jimena website for more information. The BDS folks do a great job with their propaganda. Retelling lies eventually sounds like truth. I suggest that ethnic studies curriculum be revised to expose both sides of the dispute. It also should be noted that BDS opposes the existence of the State of Israel.
I support diversity and inclusion, but oppose a curriculum that "erases American Jewish experience, fails to discuss anti-Semitism, reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, singles out Israel for criticism, and would institutionalize the teaching of anti-Semitic stereotypes in our public schools Sincerely, Michael Morganstern Palo Alto, CA

