Comments Proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum

Jody Mentzer Retired High School Teacher ( 36 years history, Government and Economics)

This is not an ethnic studies curriculum that would "cultivate empathy." More on that later.
According to the draft the "guiding values and values" will "cultivate empathy," share stories of "struggle and resistance" and "critique empire and its relationship to white supremacy, racism, patriarchy, cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, ableism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of power and oppression at the intersections of our society." (Cisheteropatriarchy is in the online dictionary but shows up as misspelled when typed. How much do the writers of these documents earn?)
I find it more than troubling to find Capitalism among these oppressive descriptions of our society. It is the economic system of a free country. It represents voluntary trade to the mutual benefit without government coercion. It has been the means by which the majority of humanities greatest achievements in the recent (past 200 plus years) history, technological achievements and standard of living have been made possible.
Teaching high school students that Capitalism is oppressive, without examining the outcomes of some of histories other paths is not education it is leftist propaganda. The curriculum may no longer allow for the teaching of these principles, I don't know, as I have been out of the classroom for over twenty years.
An ethnic studies curriculum should not teach one groups point of view without educating students about other views of the same events. Students should be taught to understand conflicts. It rather appears that it intends to teach children to feel lifelong hate and resentment over events that transpired long before they were born.
What would be wrong with a curriculum that taught students about the achievements of diverse people and cultures in the curriculum. Yes, all ethnic groups have made significant contributions and have many people who have done the same.
Curriculum could be teaching about their common heritage as Americans and the power of freedom to improve the lives of people everywhere.
It has sickened me greatly to see the erosion of our society, uncontrolled divisiveness and extreme hatred that has developed between racial groups in the past few years. The curriculum fosters it.

