From: Alison Barnstable Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 7:39 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Tony@tonythurmond.com Subject: ESMC: Request for Revisions
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very disturbed by the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
Please understand that I come from a background of being part of multiple Muslim-Jewish Solidarity Alliances (standing side-by-side with my Muslim sisters fighting the Muslim travel ban and rise in Islamophobia), volunteering in my children's school system in the form of a YMCA Project Cornerstone volunteer, and working constantly for Social Justice measures for all members of our collective communities in a variety of forms. I try to model a life of constantly fighting prejudice and bigotry. I have 3 young boys who will grow up understanding the value of a pluralistic society. I am also teaching these boys to grow up with a pride in their own history, their own Jewish history. My oldest, at 9 years old, already feels the pressure of being one of the few practicing Jewish children in school and feels selfconscious when eating latkes and matzah at school. And I live with fear that our synagogue will be the next Poway or Tree of Life shooting. I live in fear that my beautiful boys will be the next hate crime victim all because I taught them to be proud to be Jewish.
I will always continue to stand up for others. Will you stand up for my children?
ESMC focuses heavily on power structures and forms of oppression including white supremacy, sexism, classism, Islamophobia, transphobia -- but excludes anti-Semitism. Anti-Jewish bias receives only a passing mention during a discussion of intersectionality in a proposed course on Pacific Islander studies. A 22-page glossary and bibliography has entries for Islamophobia and racism, but none for antiSemitism. And yet, hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics,
I beg you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you, Alison J. Barnstable

