From: Denice Spangler Adams Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 9:45 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Stop Implementation of Ethnic Studies Mandate; Require Testing of US Constitution To Graduate
For starters: Has CA tested every high school senior to determine the student's knowledge of the US Constitution? Why not give each the citizenship test? If a student can't pass, no diploma.
There is absolutely no need or research to support any value to mandating AB2601 that every CA high school student be required to take 5-units of Ethnic Studies to graduate. Any student interested in Ethnic Studies may choose to voluntarily enroll in AP Ethnic Studies and/or take an Ethnic Studies Course FREE of charge at any of California's 114- community colleges. High schools may also petition their local community college to offer classes on high school campuses for the convenience of students. The offered AP Ethnic Studies Course has an established course syllabus and a standardized AP Exam to measure student learning outcomes on a 1-5 scale. There is no need to duplicate what's available and proven! In CA there is an aggressive movement to structurally transform CA by the indoctrination of students enrolled in public education. The stated goal is to teach students socialism is fair, while capitalism is not; acceptance of and participation in the LBGTQ lifestyle is good; having white skin makes a person an oppressor and privileged requiring these students to be stigmatized, belittled. The graduation mandate of Ethnic Studies Now is to indoctrinate students rather than teach subject matter. This mandate is at the expense of students taking 5-units of STEM, US History & Laws, US Civics, financial literacy for lifelong independence, music, theater, foreign language or another class of interest to the student. A class of interest to a student is why many students choose to attend school, excel, and then choose to pursue college or vocational training. There is no justification for this "Ethnic Studies Mandate To Graduate". Ethnic Studies is available Now, it's simply not loaded with biased indoctrination to meet the goals of militants. Classes already exist giving every interested CA Student the opportunity to enroll.
Any curriculum different from the AP Ethnic Studies Syllabus is unacceptable. Period.

