From: Deborah Nagler Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 12:58 PM To: Superintendent Subject: Proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Sir,
I am writing to protest the adoption by the California Department of its proposed Ethnic StudiesCurriculum. Theproposed curriculum is objectionable as both anti-Jewish and anti-Israel. For example, the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS)campaign against Israel is described as a positive social movement seeking "freedom for Palestinians" when in fact the goal of the founders of BDS is the elimination of Israel. Linda Sarsour, who is well known for hatred of Israel is pictured as a positive role model and the proposed curriculum legitimizes the false description of Israel as an "apartheid" state.
The curriculum also promotes a false equivalence between Palestinian Arabs and Israel with that of the United States and African American citizens, and with Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people and US policies on the border of Mexico. (p. 234.) Teachers are encouraged to use anti-Israel songs, which accuse Israel of stealing and unjustly imprisoning people and demolishing homes. Furthermore, the curriculum fails to include Jews as an ethnic minority even though the percentage of Jews in the United States is far smaller than that of other minorities described in the curriculum. Such an inaccurate and biased antiJewish and anti-Israel curriculum has no place in California or anywhere else.
It should not be used as a model for teaching impressionable students. It can result in a climate of fear, harassment, and intimidation. This curriculum will incite hatred and encourage individuals to harm the Jewish community.

Within my lifetime, signs were posted everywhere in the South: "No Niggers, Dogs, or Jews allowed". Is this your intention for California? That is the message in this curriculum.
By adopting this curriculum, California will not encourage peace and understanding. It will foment hatred and will deliver a message to the Jewish residents of California and other states that they are a justified target for evil and violence.

