From: Jennifer Hargreaves Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 8:33 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Deep concern about proposed ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very concerned by the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
The misrepresentation and anti Semitic tropes in this curriculum as well as omission of anti-semitism which is huge and growing in hate crimes in the US is a terrible message to send to my kids as they already are seeing security guards at their Sunday school and they know that gunmen have targeted synagogues. The ESMC omits any mention of antisemitism though there are three times as many hate crimes in America against Jews as against Muslims. The most recent FBI statistics record 938 antisemitic incidents and 273 Islamophobic incidents. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics, accounting for over half of religious-based hate crimes in the United States. Though a great deal of curriculum is devoted to Islamophobia, there is absolutely none devoted to anti-Semitism. Yes, Islamophobia is absolutely wrong, but the amount of coverage of it in the curriculum means that antisemitism deserves 3x the time of the curriculum instead of none.
On a more positive note, there have been many contributions to CA history by the Jewish community and it is offensive to have no representation in the curriculum as well as much coverage of BDS whose aim is the destruction of the state of Israel, homeland to the Jews after thousands of years of persecution.
I ask you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns. Let's not go backwards or accelerate the anti semitism rearing it's ugly head in America. California is better than this and I'm proud to be a California born citizen, especially as our state stands up in these trying times to the threats to our environment and our democracy.
Thank you, Jennifer Hargreaves

