From: Donna Curtis Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 9:33 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: My Comment on Ethnic Studies Curriculum
This is a reactionary curriculum drawn up in response to nothing more than cultural leniencies. This curriculum is divisive and does nothing but incite anger and feelings of being neglected or being shamed if the one studying it is in the targeted group being named as an oppressor. Whenever a group or individual is singled out for study, other groups are repressed or neglected--excluded. In trying to be non-exclusive, your curriculum does nothing more but exclude.
I am a racist in that I believe most strongly that we are the human race. A race of beings that have yet to figure out how to live peacefully. Maria Montessori was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize three times and wrote many books about creating peace. She was a brilliant educator with long lasting benefits world-wide. (The famous Piaget was her student and Vygotsky used her methods to inform his learning theories.) I recommend you stop and open your minds to take time to read "Education and Peace" and "The Formation of Man" written by Maria Montessori before you continue on your path of negativity.
Negativity only breeds more negativity. Pointing fingers always eliminates peace. We are all racists as we all belong to this human race trying desperately to find peace. It is easier than you think and does not come through means of reactionary cultural responses such as this Ethnic Studies curriculum.
I am definitely against this curriculum and any type of "editing" of this curriculum. Rather, my recommendation is to create requirements of community service such as cleaning the roadsides of trash, feeding homeless, visiting nursing homes, planting flowers/trees/vegetables in areas where there is nothing more than pavement/cement/cars, figuring out how to earn money to purchase groceries for elderly people or to pay for their utilities, sitting with people who are receiving dire medical treatments such as dialysis, etc. The list goes on and on about how we can positively give experiences to our young people that will develop in them broader awareness of their community. This would more successfully bring unity than an Ethnic Studies course.
Thank you for considering my comments.
Donna M. Curtis

