From: Daniel O. Jamison Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 5:04 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Helen L. Walton Subject: Public Comment
The Word form is too restrictive for meaningful comment. This comment is made on my own personal behalf and not on behalf of my law firm or anyone else. The overriding goal should be to honor separate cultures without undermining a common national culture. The list of ethnic studies leaves out what should be the first and foremost on the list: The American ethnicity. This ethnicity is rooted in the nation's founding ideals and values, which are universally good for all races and ethnicities. The nation's key founders may have been white males, many of whom owned slaves, but they saw the evil of slavery and other discrimination and were determined to root the nation in the ideal of equal treatment for all and the concept of e pluribus unum. Those ideals were good for their time and are good for our time. This is the American ethnicity. It is what brought and brings so many other diverse races and cultures here.
We must not throw out the baby with the bath water. We must not encourage victimhood. We must not let ethnic studies contribute to America's catastrophically coming apart.
From Washington to Margaret Corbin, to Frederick Douglass, to Harriet Tubman, to Lincoln, to the Northern soldiers who suffered gruesome deaths at Cold Harbor and the soldiers who heard their screams, to Homer Plessy, to Macario Garcia, to Thurgood Marshal, to Martin Luther King, to General Vang Pao, to President Obama, the great mosaic of Americans who have fought to implement the nation's ideals and a common national culture rooted in them should be the focus of the American ethnicity that underlies all ethnic studies.
We can honor separate cultures and races without undermining a common culture for all Americans based on the Founders' ideals. We do not need to change the spelling of "history" to "hxstory". The guiding spirit should be that of John Adams in 1813, when after years of severe estrangement, he reached out to Jefferson, writing, "You and I ought not to die, before we have explained ourselves to each other." There followed years of renewed correspondence and friendship between them. That we are all Americans participating in the revolutionary experiment that was and is this country must never be lost.
Dan Jamison

