From: kyonit Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 4:31 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic studies model curriculum
Good morning After reviewing the suggested curriculum the only thing I have to say is.. wow! How can you even suggest such a hateful, biased and misinformed program? As an Israeli living in the USA I know how misinformed the people here can be regarding the Israeli-Palestinian situation due to feeding only on the local biased media covers but I expect that high education institutes will do their research properly before coming up with such a program. There is not even one point of value comparison between "black lifes matter" and the Israeli-Palestinian issue! Not one! There is not a single israeli soldier or civilian within their settlements nor do the Israeli government has any control over their day to day lifes. The Palestinians are controlled by Hamas and other terror organizations who make their lives miserable and plant seeds of hate that has no bases. Israel, on the other hand, gives the Palestinian authority money (meant for civilians but used by Hamas to build terror tunnels and feed its leaders), medical care and jobs in Israel. I suggest you do your homework and go pay an unbiased visit to both sides of the border and investigate the true reason for the Palestinian people's suffer.. hint- it's not Israel. I have lived under constant rocket fire from Gaza for 18 years! My family still does. My kids and I have PTSD that won't go away. Israel has done everything in its power to save Palestinian lives while trying to protect us from the rockets and suicide bombers.. Hamas puts kids in the line of fire in order to make institutes like yours believe that we are the bad guy killing civilians. I lived with seeing their hate in action. Some of my friends died by it. BDS aims for one thing and one thing only! Eliminating the Israeli state and it's people. America and the western world is next. This curriculum teaches pure hate which I'm sure is not what you want to do. Please go visit Israel's southern border and see how people live under daily terror attacks. After you'll have the facts, I'm sure you will understand why the BDS was pronounced a terror group. Respectfully Yonit

