From: CJ Kingsley Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 8:52 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Assemblymember.Bonta Senator.Skinner Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
California Department of Education Model Curriculum Advisory Committee Instructional Quality Commission
Dear Recipients of Comments for the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:
Cognizant of the many comments you will receive, I will endeavor to be academic pointspecific.
The goals of the new laws with the diversity-education curriculum are to be lauded as long overdue in educating our youth about the plethora of rich cultures, colors, ethnicities, and customs of our Pale Blue Dot.
This writing reminds me of a letter I wrote to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors when it was considering whether to convert a store room at the Hall of Justice into a daycare center so that people going to court where children's relatives would appear in orange jumpsuits wearing handcuffs could leave their children. I wrote the Board telling them not to approve the conversion so that the children could have a realistic view of their own futures and develop the ability to learn to live with the knowledge that they, too, would have the experience of being led into a criminal court wearing orange and handcuffs. Yes, it was sarcasm but my comments and those of others seemed to bring the Board to see that the shielding provided by the daycare center would have a positive influence on the children who would not have to witness relatives stand before a criminal court judge.
Does any of you remember that, in the early 1980s, when a fundamentalist Christian group in one of the Northern, Midwestern states created and sold to the San Francisco Unified School District ("SFUSD") a 6th grade textbook that included segments on all religions? Every religion discussed, with the exception of Christianity, used a lower case "g" for the many other religions' deities, including Judaism's. The American Jewish Congress and other organizations worked with the SFUSD to organize the community's religious leaders to create a curriculum that included supplemental materials and guest speakers to expand the education the children would receive - to counter the denigration of religions other than Christianity. Clearly, before the text was purchased someone was asleep at the wheel.
"Tikkun Olam" means to make the world a better place.

You have the opportunity, and it is a grave responsibility, of culling the content of the proposed curriculum which will ultimately be fed to young minds so that you can make the world a better society with respect for inclusivity of the rich diversity that is California's wealth. The harmony of our Future cannot afford today's decision-makers to be asleep at the wheel.
My concerns of the draft curriculum are: the absence of so many academic, scientific, artistic, literary, and musical contributions of Jews of every color [Chinese Jews; Black Jews; South and Central America Jews], ethnicity, culture, and the plethora of walks of life; referring to the Israeli war of Independence from the British as the "Nakba," the Arabic word for "catastrophe"; the glossary and bibliography bigotry list includes Islamophobia and racism [which should be "colorism" because there is only one race, the Human Race], without any mention of so many other forms of socialized bigotry, among which omissions is anti-Semitism (created by early Christians to promote Christianity and coerce Jews to convert [recall the passion play]), which pre-dates Islamophobia; singling out Israel for condemnation when daily the news reports the many countries that imprison and murder journalists and dissidents and commit and/or condone murder of non-heterosexual people and women for acts of social independence, and Muslims to name only a few of the inhumane and grotesque acts by so many governments under the heading of exorcising "the other"; and the noticeable absence of any mention of the many Middle Eastern Jewish peoples driven out of Arab countries in 1948.
You are receiving many logical, academically-specific comments. Thank you for giving mine and those of others your most serious consideration. Stand strong and avoid being soldiers in the two-thousand-year-plus war against Jews who did not accept Jesus as the biblical-hoped-for messiah which was joined in by the Grand Mufti at the invitation of Hitler and the Arab leaders who promised to sweep the Jews of Israel into the sea and turn the formerly-British territory into a Muslim-only land over which those Arab regimes could continue to keep its masses illiterate and subjugated. Investigate the motives of those who insist on including bigoted curriculum and exclude constructive contributions of all people of all ethnicities.
Your decisions will be like the proverbial pebble in a pond whose ripples will reach shores you cannot know. Do the hard work of engineering a legacy of Building a Harmonious World.
Respectfully submitted, CJ Kingsley Alameda, CA

