Dear members, As a parent and resident in CA I'm seriously concerned, this important initiative was pushed to dark places and missing the opportunity to unify ethnic groups. Instead, if is full with topics that partially correct, wrong data or missing broader context. No teacher will be able to cover these explosive topics.
Here is just a short list of what concerns me from reading through it briefly.. and requires modifications:
Chapter 2 the sample course focuses on Arabs, why? The point of view on the conflict takes it into a dangerous subjective POV, one sided, ignoring the state of Israel, the challenges, consequences, the impact on jews and Israel. On top of all, it has nothing to do with ethnic studies, even not of the Arab American and their immigration to the US.
"...This course will focus on the history of Arab Americans, starting from their first immigration into the country to present day, highlighting their contributions and how they have--similar to other communities of color--struggled against racism, discrimination, harmful stereotypes, and social, political, and economic marginalization." Why Arab American studies are considered part of ethnicity, but Jews, American Jews that have no less impact and challenges and interest, excluded from this program? Why Arab Americans referenced to palestine but nothing about Jews and the connection to American Jews and Israel? "...four original Ethnic Studies areas--African American Studies, Asian American Studies, Chicana/o/x and Latina/o/x Studies, and Native American Studies. Samples of newer Ethnic Studies fields in the U.S., which further specify certain populations, including Pacific Islander Studies, Arab American Studies, Central American Studies, are also included."
African American Studies Course Outlines
Chicana/o/x and Latina/o/x Studies Course Outlines
Asian American Studies Course Outlines
Native American Studies Course Outlines
Why the chapter 4, the glossary amendment contains items such as BDS, which are not relevant to Ethnic studies?
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS)- is a global social movement that currently aims to establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions. Inspired by tactics employed during the South African anti-apartheid movement, the Palestinian-led movement calls for the boycott, divestment, and sanctioning of the Israeli government until it complies with International law. BDS proponents and organizers have called for the global community to boycott or withdraw support from Israel and companies associated with it. The second component of BDS calls for governments, banks, universities, and other institutions to withdraw monetary support (divestment) from Israel

and its companies. And finally, the third component--sanctions--asks international governments to hold Israel accountable for its actions through legislation, trade and military agreements, among other measures.
****
If you willing to listen, happy to share many more concrete issues identified so far.
Please consider fixing the content and make sure also other ethnic groups treated properly and fairly. And of the day, we want a safer environment and a better future to all kids. Currently, you missed it. Hope to hear back soon, Gershon Diner Palo Alto, CA

