From: Hans Frank Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 3:26 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: ethnic studies
I have reviewed the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum and as a California resident and parent to two children, I find it quite shocking that this curriculum would be proposed and seriously considered. it needs to be completely scrapped. It is packed full of political agendas and propaganda that have no place in an ethnic studies program. For some reason it also contradicts known science, fact, and common sense. I would expect an ethnic studies program to be focused informing students about the diverse cultures that exist around the world and contract them with our own. However, this Curriculum fails to accomplish the goal in favor of far left ideologies and agendas that have no business being taught in school.
First of all, the respelling of words makes the ideas expressed unclear and difficult to follow. Also, they are incorrect.
The curriculum defines itself in this way, "At its core, the field of Ethnic Studies is the interdisciplinary study of race, ethnicity, and indigeneity (sic.) with an emphasis on experiences of people of color in the United States." This is fine and well, but then things go off the rails in the very next sentence when it uses the word "xdisciplinary". I have no idea what this even means even with the supplied glossary. In fact it is at this point the entire curriculum begins to fail its own mission. This class should be focusing on the cultures that make people who they are, there should be no discussion of sexual orientation, or any discussion about a single race being superior or more privileged over another for simply being of a different color.
Why is a concept of cisheteropatrarchy even discussed in this curriculum??? What does it have to do with ethnicity? And for that matter, why is it taken as blind fact that this is even an issue? This is the problem with adopting a far left agenda as a class curriculum; There is another side, that in this case, makes more sense. Concepts like these can be debated in Universities by people who choose to have the conversation, not in public schools where it is forced upon them.
Focus on celebrating different ethnic cultures, not promoting left ideology or turning this into a class on gender or sexual choice. I whole hardheartedly reject the curriculum in its current form and would seek to remove my children from participating in it. I find it offensive and embarrassing that my state would consider this to be quality education.
I request that this curriculum be scrapped and redeveloped. Please select a politically well rounded board of educators from all over the State of California, who can develop an actual respectable curriculum for consideration
Respectfully,

Hans Frank Very concerned parent.

