From: Caryn Wiseman Sent: Sunday, August 11, 2019 8:25 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Tony Thurmond Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am extremely concerned about the flawed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I strongly support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
As the granddaughter of Holocaust refugees from Nazi Germany, I have been appalled and frightened by the increase in antisemitic incidents taking place in this country over the last few years, and over the normalization of antisemitism and other forms of white supremacy. My family and I were leaders in the efforts to educate the AP English teachers in my daughter's high school, leading to those teachers choosing to remove an essay from the curriculum that could be considered antisemitic, and was not appropriate for that classroom. Sadly, another class at the high school had curriculum with antisemitic content contributed by anti-Israel sources the following year.
The ESMC erases the Jewish experience in California and America, despite our community's significant contributions, and our longstanding struggle against hatred and discrimination. This exclusion is offensive and inconsistent with the purpose of ethnic studies, which is to foster and promote inclusion and tolerance.
The ESMC also omits any mention of antisemitism. Although much of the curriculum is devoted to Islamophobia, as it should, there should absolutely be coverage of antisemitism. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics, accounting for over half of religious-based hate crimes in the US.
I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Caryn Wiseman

