From: Liron Yehudai Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 2:26 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic studies curriculum
Hello,
My name is Liron and I'm writing to you as a very worried mom of 4 kids.
The Department of Education California is creating a new ethnic studies curriculum. The curriculum does not recognize Jews as a minority in the US. Furthermore, it calls for boycotting Israel (in 3 different classes), attempts to explain the conflict in the Middle East using a single-sided story, encourages aggression against Israelis, and spreads hate against Israelis and Jews.
I will be terrified to send my kids to school knowing that their fellow students are learning that Israelis, Jews (or African American or Latinos or Muslims) - are bad and we should boycott them.
We had over +200 mass shootings this year. Almost all of them directed towards minorities and many of them - directed towards Israelis and Jews. I would not be able to sleep at night if I ever heard that the next shooter learned that "Jews are bad" in these classes - I hope you wouldn't either.
I hear school bullying because of ethnicity is on the rise. It breaks my heart when I see a mass shooting in a synagogue, as well as it breaks my heart when I see mass shooting in a mosque.
Its hard to understand why the people that wrote the curriculum want to spread hate. In a program for ethnic studies more than anything. The last thing we need in California and the US in general - is more hate. We need more love. More respect. To all people and all minorities. So both you and I can send our kids to school and feel safe.
There are 300,000 Jews living in California and can be directly affected if we spread hate against them. My children will have a much higher chance to get bullied just because they are Jewish. Is that the education system we want to build in CA?
If you really do care about the safety of our children - please act now. You are my public representative and I trust you would do so. Can you please help?
Thank you,
Liron Tapiro Yehudai.

