From: Helen Rogaway Sent: Saturday, August 10, 2019 4:09 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Curriculum
To Whom it does Concern:
My Parents were born in Poland; they came to American just before the Great Depression. Their ship passed the Statue of Liberty, "give me your tired, your poor, your homeless, yearning to breath free..." A Jewish-American story of a hopeful people, struggling to survive. There were many Jewish organizations that tried to help: newspapers, synagogues, clubs, organizations, free-loan societies, hospitals, and people.
The news from Europe was bad; Anti-Sematism was rampant - Nazi's blamed many of their problems on the Jews. Under Hitler's government, "civil rights" were denied the Jews they were blamed for the problems in Germany. Many Jews fled to America, or anywhere that they deemed safe. Today there are still refugees, desperate to go anywhere they can be accepted. World War 11 started with Nazi Germany and expanded to all of Europe. "Undesirables" were rounded up and sent to Concentrartion Camps and killed - eleven million people (men, women, and children) were murdered. Six million were Jews - "The Holocaust."
I am writing not because I need the finger exercise; I have taught in California my entire working life, until the age of 74 (as Classroom-Teahcer and Library-Media Instructor.) I am a graduate of LA High, UCLA, Cal Berkeley, and Immaculate Heart. I hold degrees from all of these schools. I care about this curriculum. The AmericanJews have struggled and continually dealt with Anti-Semitism. They helped the Blacks in the Civil-Rights Movments, the Latino Farm Workers, and any other ethnic group needing help. We believe in "love and acceptance" of your neighbors. We are a part of the Melting Pot" Your treatment of "Jews in American" is not accurate or complete.
The "Israeli-Palistinian Conflict" is a "political issue" and not a part of Ethnic Studies in California. It is "Anti-Israel," a ligitimate country in the MiddleEast, and does not belong in an Ethnic Studies Program. The BDS movement is an attempt to financially destroy a UN sactioned country economically. This is not a high school issue.
Thanks for taking the time to read my letter. Sincerely, Helen Walder Rogaway

