From: Kelly Kadoodles Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 8:20 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Flawed Thinking
Hello ! ,
I have to say i am completely appalled by this so called study course. teaching that capitalism is racist ? The twisting of young minds that males as role models are not good, especially white ones is just ridiculous. It is a complete insult to anyone with a child to think the failing, and yes it is failing education system in this state cannot even teach kids basic reading , writing , math at a proficient level would waste our time , and money on such trash in an effort to brainwash our youth. Quite frankly i think just goes to show why our education system in this state is so horrible.
These children need skills they can actually apply in life including trades which have all but been eliminated , not indoctrination on some warped ideological thinking of a few misguided teacher's / professor's who obviously like their high paying jobs while railing against capitalism which set's this country above all other's when it comes to real opportunity.
The whole thing is about demonizing white men, i and am so fed up with this kind of useless none sense being perpetuated on my tax dollars i really think these educator's should be fired, and then they can complain about oppression !
My grandchildren are Black / Hispanic, and i am Cajun/Irish. I am the minority in this state , and i would rather, and in fact will pull these kids from public education, and home school them rather than to allow them to be warped by this garbage !
My family has never owned slaves, and in fact being Cajun we were the first people displaced by the English in North America long before slaves ever were here, and on my mom's side she was Irish , and orphaned, and i was raised by a black woman in our family affectionately known as Aunt Charlie.
This whole program you are thinking of implementing is just wrong. Unless your intent is to stir up racial bigotry/hatred, and cause undue prejudice towards males in the family unit , and the vital role they play in every child's life !
Good Day !

