From: gert Walter Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 1:12 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Halt, Stop Implementation of Mandate AB2601 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum There is absolutely no need or research to support any value to mandating that every CA high school student be required to take 5-units of Ethnic Studies to graduate. Any student interested in Ethnic Studies may choose to voluntarily enroll in AP Ethnic Studies and/or take an Ethnic Studies Course FREE of charge at any of California's 114- community colleges. High schools may also petition their local community college to offer classes on high school campuses for the convenience of students. The offered AP Ethnic Studies Course has an established course syllabus and a standardized AP Exam to measure student learning outcomes on a 1-5 scale. There is no need to duplicate what's available and proven! In CA there is an aggressive movement to structurally transform CA by the indoctrination of students enrolled in public education. The stated goal is to teach students socialism is fair, while capitalism is not; acceptance of and participation in the LBGTQ lifestyle is good; having white skin makes a person an oppressor and privileged requiring these students to be stigmatized, belittled. The graduation mandate of Ethnic Studies Now is to indoctrinate students rather than teach subject matter. This mandate is at the expense of students taking 5-units of STEM, US History & Laws, US Civics, financial literacy for lifelong independence, music, theater, foreign language or another class of interest to the student. A class of interest to a student is why many students choose to attend school, excel, and then choose to pursue college or vocational training. There is no justification for this "Ethnic Studies Mandate To Graduate". Ethnic Studies is available Now, it's simply not loaded with biased indoctrination to meet the goals of militants. Classes already exist giving every interested CA Student the opportunity to enroll. Any curriculum different from the AP Syllabus is unacceptable. Period.
Furthermore, USA History and Civics should be MANDATORY from ` original source documents' so students can see what an AMAZING country that America is and continues to be the great experiment where WE THE PEOPLE are those that elect Representatives--because government comes from the people. Government exists to PROTECT our inalienable rights. We have a FREE Government this should be celebrated, and taught ALL throughout grades K-12. "No free Government, nor the blessings of liberty, can be preserved to any people

but by a FREQUENT RECURRENCE to fundamental principals." --George Mason (Founding Father

