From: Marcia Sandler Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 6:31 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: New HIgh School curriculum in California
As an American, I am extremely concerned and disappointed about the new addition to the California curriculum - I don't even know what category of "education" it has been placed in that will do nothing but incite hatred of the Jewish people and justify those aiming to harm them. It most definitely serves the agenda of those who already hate the Jewish people by insidiously presenting this as being about the Palestinian people.
It indoctrinates students to empathize with Palestinian suffering from the wrong source, putting the onus falsely on Israel, without blaming the ones actually doing the harm: the PLO and Hamas leadership and their western supporters who enable the ongoing intransigence regarding peace with Israel and terrorism, and who ensure a lack of non-terror-related income and normal lives to the Palestinians living in the Palestinian territories and Gaza, an independent entity..This is libel against what is not only a democratic state and the United States' only reliable ally in the Middle East but also the single Jewish country in the world, and unfortunately the only one where they can always be sure of being free from persecution.
By omitting any mention of Jews or anti-semitism/judeophobia, your curriculum pretends that these prejudices are not involved. That is an insidious misrepresentation of the truth. Even without seeing the increase of anti-Jewish slogans and images in the media and signs that claim to be "pro-Palestinian", it has been clear from the start that pro-Palestinian is just another word for anti-semitism, that latter term having developed a bit of a stigma after the holocaust and a replacement being needed. So the ever-present anti-semitism in the world needed a cover, and calling oneself "anti-Israel" fit the bill. In Europe, there were the blood libels; now we have Israeli-killing-babies libels; not so long ago we had Protocols of the Elders of Zion; now we have Israel controlling the American government, and more. You are only fooling yourselves if you believe that your new ethnic studies curriculum is anything bu the same ages-old Jew-hatred.
I can't urge you strongly enough, as human beings, and more pertinently, as educators, to reconsider this bigoted new curriculum. If you are truly interested in teaching about Palestinian suffering, make it the truth: that their leadership has, since 1948, prevented them from having normal lives. If you go ahead with your planned curriculum, you will be harming not only your reputation and the Jewish people in the United States, but also the Palestinians, who deserve better than the treatment they have been getting, not from Israel, but from those who are using them for their own self-serving purposes.
I apologize for coming on so strongly, but California is a big and influential state, with, I hope, a value in teaching goodness, not hatred, and truth, not lies.
Thank you, Marcia Sandler

