From: Ken Goldstein Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 8:24 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: ESMC Model Curriculum Must Include Anti-Semitism
To the Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am a Californian who cares tremendously about educating our youth about diversity and inclusion of all types. I am writing to comment on your proposed ESMC proposed curriculum and I oppose it as written today because it fails to discuss Anti-Semitism.
The proposed curriculum reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, and singles out Israel for criticism. As it stands today I believe this curriculum would institutionalize the teaching of AntiSemitism stereotypes in our public schools, creating a generation that knows nothing of the Holocaust or of Anti-Semitism here in the USA. This is dangerously wrong.
Anti-Semitism is real, and its violent threat is growing. One does not need to look outside of California or very far back in time to know that this is true: ... the murders at the Poway synagogue in San Diego in April... the man arrested in June in Concord for planning to complete the Poway shooting (out on bail now!) ... in 2018, Anti-Semitic incidents in this state rose 21% over 2017.
I urge you to make major revisions or complete a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others who are also calling for this change. It needs to include Anti-Semitism and discuss the long time persecution of Jews that continues today.
In today's climate of hate, Anti-Semitism is near the top of the list for hate crimes and I can't believe that you are not including it in your proposed curriculum and that you are actually including some Anti-Semitic tropes that will be teaching the next generation to wrongly hate Jews. This is NOT inclusive, it is not right, and frankly, it directly threatens and endangers my life.
Please do not approve this curriculum as it stands. You must make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Ken Goldstein Los Gatos, CA

