From: Robert Klein Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 10:13 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comment on The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
I am extremely upset by the proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum, developed bye the California Department of Education.
If the the objectives of the curriculum (e.g. higher graduation rates, better attendance, empowerment) are met the State of CA will be a model for many other States.
Instead, the draft if adopted is likely to result in future CA students to be filled with hatred and to be biased by mistruths.
I'll focus on the anti-Semitic and anti Israel aspects of the draft.
It attacks Jewish Americans, a minority community. Of ~approximately 1.7 to 2.6% of the US population. Jewish Americans have experienced a significant increase in hate crimes and this curriculum WILL exacerbate this dark side of hatred.
A few examples of why thoughtfully educated students will be harmed by the proposed curriculum
How can Chapter 2 reference Nation of Islam, led by an individual who has claimed Jews took part in the 9/11 terrorist attacks or who has referred Jews as "termites"? Similarly, in Chapter 2, Linda Sensor, another evil individual, is is hell bent on promoting division and hatred. She is glad to "fund" Jewish cemeteries and create incendiary hatred by claiming Jesus was a Palestinian. Why did Teresa Shook, the Woman's March leadership condemn Sarsour?
A good deal of the draft curriculum is also anti-Israel. Promoting the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) which is vey often a camoflauged attack on Jews. BDS uses misinformation to undermine Israel's right to exist and to attack virtually every aspect of Israel's history . Twenty-seven Staes, including California, have passed legislation and/or have official folic resolutions against BDS activity.
In summary, I do not understand how the draft could even get to this advanced stage. It is a badly flawed document and will make the State of CA , if passed, a model for young, hate mongers.

