From: Melissa Sobel Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 9:13 PM To: Superintendent Subject: Fwd: Serious issues with the highly flawed ethnic studies model curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am deeply alarmed and concerned by the deeply flawed proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others. If you don't rewrite it, I'd rather you eliminate it all together than keep the racist curriculum that has been developed.
I grew up in rural Louisiana at a time when the former KKK Grand Wizard David Duke was running for governor and senator (and won more than 40% of the vote each time). As a Jewish American, I experienced a great deal of racism and Antisemitism directed my way. I have made it a point to raise my children in California, a state I had always considered to be pluralistic and celebratory of its diverse population -- until this.
This curriculum is everything I tried to flee and is racist to its core. I'm frankly shocked that something so vile and racist has been woven into this "model" curriculum. How could something so biased against Jews have even made it this far? I think you need to take a serious look not only at your highly discriminatory curriculum but also at the individuals who have been allowed to develop it without input from groups like the California Legislative Jewish Caucus to provide much-needed balance. I prefer you to rewrite the curriculum, but If you won't do that, then please remove it altogether. It's better to have nothing than to institutionalize racism on this scale.
Please do not allow something intended to be so positive to alienate so many and, worse yet, to directly stoke the dangerous racist rhetoric which is coursing through our country with devastating results.
Thank you, Melissa Chaika Los Altos, CA

