From: Patricia Herskovic Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 5:00 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: UCLA Alum's Input into 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft
ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
RE: Input into 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft Dear California Department of Education Below is my input into 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I am a UCLA class of 1977, a film producer and published nonfiction author on the WWII Holocaust. My parents are both survivors, but millions were not. Among my numerous relatives who were murdered at the hands of the Nazis were my two baby sisters I never knew, gassed to death at the ages of 14 months and 4 years. I strongly urge you to create curriculum to combat, rather than promote anti-Semitism as your model curriculum does at this point. Sincerely, Patricia Herskovic Los Angeles, CA 90024 The glossary, page 2, lines 29-40 provides a one-sided definition of Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions." As Israel does not have an apartheid system either within Israel proper or in Area C, accusing Israel of apartheid meets the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA)'s working definition of antiSemitism, which has been adopted by the UK, EU, Canadian federal government, US State Department, and many other nations. Moreover, the purpose of BDS, as stated by its co-founder and leading activists, Omar Barghouti, is to end the existence of Israel, the only Jewish state. Chapter 2 Page 234, lines 4956-4958 create a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico. In doing so, it demonizes Israel, once again meeting the criteria of the IHRA's working definition of anti-Semitism. It also promotes a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine (p. 234) and so indirectly encourages students to advocate for the destruction of Israel. Page 242, lines 5157-5161 once again provides a one-sided, anti-Israel view of the 1948 War, with no coverage the Jewish experience. Page 256, lines 5477-5494, pages 264-270, lines 5692-5830 encourage teachers to use an anti-Israel poem which insinuates Jews control the media and use it to manipulate the public - a common, and quintessential, antisemitic slur. More generally, the Introduction of the proposed curriculum states that "[t]he implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to...enable students to develop a deep appreciation for cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism." However, the curriculum does not include a single lesson about the Jewish community or antisemitism. With antisemitism rising, the exclusion of Jews and antisemitism from this curriculum is not only educationally deficient but aids and abets the rise of antisemitism within our society.

