From: Robert Berton Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 4:38 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: CALIFORNIA ETHNIC STUDIES MODEL CURRICULUM
Dear Officials for the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:
I am writing you as a deeply concerned California citizen. I was born in Los Angeles, California, in 1937; and I have been a resident of San Diego California since 1963. I have 4 children born and living in California, and 6 grandchildren born and living in California.
I am a Past President of the Jewish Family Service of San Diego; I am a Past President of the San Diego Jewish Community Center; and I am a Past President of Congregation Beth Israel of San Diego.
Since 1963 I have been duly licensed to practice law in the State of California; and I served as Chairman of the California Law Revision Commission.
As a Jew I am a member of a recognized ethnic minority. "Ethnic" is defined as a subgroup of a dominant national or cultural group.
I am shocked and surprised that the proposed California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum EXCLUDES Jews from the ethnic groups to be considered and covered by the proposed Studies Model Curriculum. Furthermore, that proposed Curriculum also EXCLUDES from consideration of hate crimes/discrimination the evil of Anti-Semitism. Reliable statistics show that about half of religious based hate crimes in the United States are against Jews. The divisive BDS Movement, which seeks to eradicate the nation of Israel, is included in the Curriculum with no balancing or contrary perspective. As a lawyer I firmly believe that freedom of speech should allow ALL sides to be heard; but the emphasis must be on ALL sides and views.
No ethnic group, including Jews, should be denigrated by the adoption, as is, of the proposed California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. No ethnic group, including Jews, should be excluded from the Studies Curriculum, such that Jews, or any other ethnic group, find the adopted Studies Curriculum to be personally painful, upsetting, or traumatic.
Surely the evil of Anti-Semitism needs to be part of the Studies Curriculum if the true purpose of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is to alleviate prejudice, bigotry and hate. To avoid unfair and inappropriate discrimination against the ethnic group known as Jews, that ethnic group, along with others, needs to be included in the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
Jewish students throughout California are entitled, like other ethnic groups, to be protected by the final California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that is adopted.
Sincerely,
Robert James Berton Attorney at Law

