From: Marilyn Elperin Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 1:40 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: ESMC promotes anti-semitism
To the Cal. Dept. of Education / Instructional Quality Commission and Those This May Concern: I am a lifelong resident of California and the parent of two children educated in our fine public school systems (as was I). I am deeply concerned about the proposed curriculum (ESMC). As a Jewish American, I am very disturbed by the numerous instances of anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli content and course material throughout the ESMC. I strongly encourage the Dept. of Education to seriously reconsider numerous aspects of the ESMC that are demeaning to Jewish Americans, particularly those who support the Jewish national homeland, the State of Israel. It creates a dangerous climate for Jewish Californians, and it supports the creation of a whole new generation of anti-semites. That is not our California.
The Israel-Palestinian conflict is complex, and we all hope that the national aspirations of both can be fulfilled. But, the ESMC is highly polarizing and will divide students rather than bring them together to an improved multi-cultural sensitivity respectful of all ethnic groups, including Jews. The narrative of Israel as a rogue nation is one sided, and particularly riff with ancient anti Jewish sentiments. Why single Israel out? At least they work for dialog, 20% of Israeli voting citizens are of Arab descent, any faith may be practiced, and there is due process. Can the same be said of any of its Arab neighbors? Why single out Israel, who survives against neighbors whose official policy is the destruction of Israel? How can we see the ESMC as anything other than anti-Jewish? Thank you for your consideration, and please feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Best regards,
Marilyn Elperin California resident, born and bred - from a multi-generational family of California public school students leading to careers as Californian physicians, attorneys, engineers and research scientists

