From: Glenn DeVoogd Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 1:16 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comment on the ethnic studies curriculum
Thanks for letting me comment on the curriculum.
I think this curriculum is a step forward and I have some suggestions for revisions. First, have been an educator for over 40 years in K-12 and the university. I am currently a professor at CSU Dominguez Hills, but these views listed below are my own and don't represent the university.
1. The committee seems to have been stacked with people of one socially constructed perspective of history. To get a perspective that represents California, we need to have a range of philosophical perspectives on the committee. Philosophical is different than race. Islamophobia is definitely important to include in the curriculum. Many others fear Christianity and take a very anti-christian stance. Another perspective missing is the peace perspective and attempts throughout history to negotiate in peaceful ways. A good book to review that is The Missing Peace: the Search for Nonviolent Alternatives in the United States History by James Juhnke & Carol Hunter. What is the roll of labor unions or those who make deliberate choices to stay poor?
2. Rapacious capitalism has and continues to have huge negative effects on our society, but 'capitalism with a conscience' would have a huge positive effect on the world. Democratic socialism seems to have some good points. However, ask anyone who has fled Vietnam, Eastern block countries, Russia, China about socialist policies that were disastrous-not to mention National Socialism which is another name for Nazism. There is a need to explain these nuances to the terms capitalism and socialism clearly because there is a range of beliefs and definitions.
3. You don't want to focus history emphasizing suffering and victimization.
4. Allow for a more complex understanding of race. Slavery and genocide was common in Africa and Native American populations before the arrival of Europeans. African Americans also had slaves. There were many European Americans who gave their lives to end slavery - John Brown was one. Islamophobia should be included but so should anti-semitism. A discussion about oppression in Europe that caused so many Europeans to immigrant is also important.
Best,
Glenn DeVoogd

