From: Ron maltiel Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 7:30 PM To: Tony Thurmond; Superintendent Subject: Please Do Not Institutionalize Antisemitism in Ethnic Studies Program
Dear Superintendent Thurmond,
Please do not allow the State Education Department to eliminate Jewish people from ethnic studies curriculum, as they've always been included alongside similar Hispanic, Muslim, Arab, African-American and other "minority" communities. At a time of growing white nationalism and antisemitism and when Jews are being murdered in their places of worship across the country and world (e.g., Poway, CA and Pittsburgh, PA synagogue mass murders for most recent reference), it would be a terrible injustice to exclude Jews from consideration as a discriminated "minority" group.
It is a totally offensive and incorrect misrepresentation to include BDS in in your state curriculum "glossary" of terms since that movement labels Israel as an "apartheid state." While the IsraeliPalestinian conflict is not without blame on both sides, the term apartheid is totally inappropriate and implies a foreign colonizer subjugating an indigenous people. The Jewish people, descendants of the exiled Israelites, have an equal and "original" right to the land, as do the Palestinian people. That right has been rejected by Arab leadership for nearly 100 years. Suggesting that the Jews are colonizers is outrageous and unfair. BDS is a hateful program aimed specifically to undermine the legitimacy and eradicate the existence of the State of Israel. Reference to BDS must not be included in our children's school curriculum.
In my comments above, I am referring to the following documents and pages in the proposed Ethnic Studies Curricula: - Glossary: Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions - Chapter 2: Pages 234, 237, 242, and 264-269
Altogether, the proposed draft singles out Israel for special critique and condemnation is out of context, factually incorrect and represents biased propaganda rather than historical fact.
Thank you for your immediate consideration to correct these oversights and errors.
Regards,
Ron Maltiel, saratoga, Ca

