-----Original Message----From: Alan Benner Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 10:01 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Model template for ethnic studies
Gentlemen,
I have made some of these comments siting page nos. but most are general comments on the document.
I am a private citizen with no affiliation to any organization and I am retired and represent no business but my own concern for California education.
Alan Benner Solana Beach, Ca. 92075

Comments on ethnic studies curriculum
I think that this should be more focused on Hispanics which are the largest part of immigrants to our country and our state.
Formation of the united states..... at the expense of the indigenous peoples. Should we leave the USA because it was not ours to start? The curriculum should address what the limit is for time on claims. It is, in this case impossible to go back so we should have a plan moving forward to treat native population with fairness.
P.2 BDS and its toxic results. Should we not be teaching dialog rather than protest for solutions? Doesn't BDS send a wrong message about multicultural societies?
Ethnic cleansing in Arab lands. No mention of Sudan and Boko Haram and their abuse of black African populations. The state was divided in this case but the abuse goes on.
Immigration from poverty and injustice. I think more emphasis on Hispanic peoples because they are a larger segment of out immigrant population.
Failure to mention the greatest hate program of the 20th century. Holocaust. It is important enough as an example of hate on a mass scale resulting the death of millions.
Mention East Timor ethnic cleansing. The United Nations never addressed this abuse of the native peoples.
Is Israel/ Palestine one country? That suggests no compromise solution. You should describe the Palestinian position clearly. Not racist because the Jews and Arabs are from the same racial mold. Hatred is about territory.
P 241. 1948 Israel/ Arab war. It should be mentioned that about as many Jews were ejected from Arab lands as were Palestinians from Israel. Also No Jewish camps for displaced Jews.
P 243. Peddling as an Arab trade. I think it should be mentioned that many poor were peddlers. This includes all ethnic groups.
P 247. Stateless peoples. This needs to be defined. Have the Arab lands failed to accept Palestinians into their countries? How have the Arab countries used the Palestinians as a wedge against Israel? Is it wrong to want an ethnically pure state? Explain Arab states that penalize nonArabs.
The right of return is key to the argument. So should Jews be allowed to return to their homes in Arab countries? Should they have restitution? Would that restitution include all of their heirs?

Comments on ethnic studies curriculum
There should be mention of the difference in values for all ethnic groups. Women in some cultures have less value than in others. Should women be equal in the eyes of any nation?
Fairness is an important lesson in this discussion. How would you define fair treatment of any segment of population.

