From: Irwin Lowi Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 4:12 PM To: Superintendent Subject: Save our values
Dear Mr. Thurmond:
Thank you for opening this email. I was born and raised in California, and educated in the Public School system. We were taught that the United States was successful because it was a melting pot. I am told that is no longer a popular notion since were asked to melt more than others. I fully understand the change. But we were also taught to respect others, regardless of religious beliefs or nationality. Sadly, it seems times have changed, and the hatred of the right and left seems to be making decisions that destroy all respect for each other. Such a change is the reason for this email.
I am writing to protest the adoption by the Department of Education of it's proposed ethnic studies curriculum. It is important that fairness and factual information be used to create such programs. Lying and distortions of truth won't make this a better program or provide education. The BDS campaign against Israel is described as a positive movement seeking freedom for Palestinians, when in fact BDS and it's underlying supporters want the elimination of Israel as the way to freedom. Linda Sarsour is a well known speaker of hate toward Israel, yet is pictured as a positive role model. She has descripted falsely the notion that Israel is an apartheid state, a falsehood designed to promoted hatred and negatives toward Israel regardless of the truth. Additional material promotes an equivalence between PalestinianArabs and Israel with that of the U.S. and it's African-American citizens. There are not now, nor were there ever Arab slaves in Israel. That Israel keeps terrorist out using fences is somehow made the equal to the U.S. treatment of Central Americans at it's borders. Again at attempt to use the visual pain we see and transferring it onto Israel.
Teachers are encouranged to use songs to ingrain such messages as stealing land, unjust imprisonment, and demolishing homes. Furthermore the curriculum fails to include Jews as an ethnic minority even though the percentage of Jews in the United States is far smaller than many of the other minorities described in the material. Such inaccuracies show the bias in those who created this, and we would hope this has no place in California or any other state. Does California need to lead in making Jews the scapegoat? It is our children's hearts and minds and the question of whether the State want's to be the Bavaria of America. I write this as a voter, a Californian , an American, and yes, as a Jew. Don't go down that slope. Sincerely, Irwin Lowi

