From: Rosemary Jenkins Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 2:17 PM To: Ethnic Studies; Kenneth McDonald Subject: Input for Required Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Kenneth et al,
As an introduction, I have served as a teacher in LAUSD for my entire teaching career. During that time and since I have written a number of books: Leticia in Her Wedding Dress and Other Poems; A Quick-and-Easy Reference to Correct Grammar and Composition; Vignettes for Understanding Literary and Related Concepts, and more recently the historical fiction, The Southern Phoenix, (pertaining to the Black experience in America during the last century) and the non-fiction, Juvenile Offenders: from Big Wheels to the Big House (addressing prison and justice reform issues--I have worked with inmates, present and past, for years). During this time I have also written a number of columns with an eye to use in ethnic studies classes in high school and college (see attached).
Below, you will find my input with regard to the classes being considered in the near future on ethnic studies.
Input for Ethnic Studies Curriculum I have been working with LAUSD Board Member Scott Schmerelson for more than a year with regard to the need for an Ethnic Studies high school graduation requirement. Since the template on the California State website does not allow for more detailed input, I am contacting you in this manner. I have taught English, American history, and the humanities for LAUSD for more than 37 years. Over the last several years, many of my articles on the influence of ethnic groups on the development of our society have appeared in citywatchla.com and laprogressive.com. I have attached a compiled sample of those columns. I would like to see a semester requirement which includes an overview of the broad range of ethnic backgrounds as an introduction to an Ethnic Studies course. Many schools which now offer some form of ethnic studies allows students to select one particular ethnic group to study (often students opt for a curriculum that only covers their own background to the exclusion of the many others with whom that have and will come into contact during their lives). The overview portion that I suggest would be a wonderful introduction to background, foundation, and thought-provoking discussion which would ultimately lead to deeper investigations and examinations of this subject. I would recommend that schools also offer supplementary courses which would allow for interested students to delve deeper into a variety of ethnic categories and studies. Each teacher would be trained specifically for these courses, and the curriculum would allow them the freedom to expand upon the basic structure through a variety of innovative ways. The coursework must be fact-based and objective while students would be able to question material through in-class discussion (using Socratic methods among others) and outside projects (including interviews).

As time is of the essence, I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience to answer any questions you might have and to allow me to make more detailed comments. Please see contact information below.
Warmly,
Rosemary Jenkins
LACDP, AD 39 Chair, NVGA Columnist, LA/Hollywood Progressive Contributor, City Watch LA

