From: CFIRD Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 4:18 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: FW: Ethic studies curriculum
From: Refael Tessler Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 3:46 PM To: CFIRD Subject: Ethic studies curriculum
Saw this post and was outraged. Please read
So California is working on an "Ethnic Studies" program fro its public high schools (as required by law), and has provided a draft on which comments can be made, etc.
There is a lot about racism and systems of power and it gives a lot of space to racism against black people, and then against Latino, Native Americans, then a lot about migration, then Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, then Arab Americans.
Not once does it mention Jews as an ethnicity or a minority or an anything really. Which sounds mighty petulant (why am I not mentioned?!), but please read on as to why this is important.
I went through the whole thing (I'll link the site where you can download the curriculum in the comments) and I'll break down the numbers:
These are how many times it mentions a specific word:
"Palestine" 10 times
1. In a list of potential social movements it lists: "Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement for Palestine" (the ONLY movement mentioned for anything outside the US) 2. As a sample topic about discussing how Arabs fight against racism and stereotypes: "Direct Action Front for Palestine and Black Lives Matter" 3. In the same list: "Comparative Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico" 4. About Arab immigration to the US 5. Same 6. Same 7. In an immigrant narrative 8. In regards to the Somos Sur song: "Day 2: Teacher distributes song lyrics to the song, "Somos Sur" by Ana Tijoux and Shadia Mansour. Teacher introduces the song by explaining that: "Somos Sur" is a song off Ana Tijoux's latest album "Vengo". She collaborated on this song with Shadia Mansour, who is an Arab hip-hop artist from Palestine. Ana is from Chile, where her parents were exiled under the dictatorship of Pinochet a few years before she was born in France. " 9. In the song "The Real Arab Money"

"In Palestine, kids can't shop at these malls" 10. And back o the Somos Sur song: "Nigeria, Bolivia, Chile, Angola, Puerto Rico and Tunisia Algeria, Venezuela, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Mozambique Costa Rica, Cameroon, Congo, Cuba, Somalia, Mexico Dominican Republic, Tanzania Get out Yankees from Latin America French, English and Dutch I love you Free Palestine" (Comparing Jews in Israel to Yankees in Latin America etc. ie colonizers)
"Palestinian" 9 times
1. Song by Somos Sur "The child (divine) Mary doesn't want your punishment, she is going to free the Palestinian soil" 2, 3, 4, 5. About Palestinian immigrants to the US 6,7,8. An immigrant story (There were 2 other Arab immigrant stories, 1 was from Ameen Rihani, well actually from a novel written by him about a Lebanese immigrant, and the other was Rashida Tlaib, the daughter of Palestinian immigrants. Keep in mind Palestinians are around 5% of the total Arab population of the US) 9. About stereotypes that exist agasint Palestinians. *Islamophobia 60 times* Not going to list them :)
"Islam 3 times"
1. In regards to Islamaphobia 2. In regards to stereotypes against Arabs (that Arab women are oppressed by Islam) 3. In a song "The Real Arab Money" "From bomb makers stripping Islam Naked"
*Jew 4 times*
1. once about a successful (wealthy) Jewish immigrant 2. about Arab immigration (?!), 3,4. in regards to stereotypes about Arabs that they hate Jews
"Jewish" 0 times
"Jew" 4 times
1. A successful (financially) immigrant Jew 2.
"Israel" 7 times
1. in regards to "African American Spiritual and Religious Traditions (e.g., Hebrew Israelites, National of Islam, Moorish Science Temple, Afro-Pentecostalism) "

2. in regards to the experience of Arab-Americans how they struggle against racism etc. it mentions "Call to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction Israel" 3. in regards to Arab immigration to the US 4. Same as above (in defining where the Ottoman Empire was) 5. In regards to explaining Palestinian immigration to the US "The largest single group was Palestinian, as hundreds of thousands of Palestinians had been displaced in the Nakba (Arabic for "Catastrophe," the term used to describe the dispossession and dispersal of many Palestinian Arabs from the new state of Israel in the 1948 Palestine War)." 6. Again in regards to how we might stereotype Palestinians "Palestinians: terrorists, blow up airlines, try to "destroy Israel" and "drive the Jews into the sea"" 7. In the lyrics to a song it deems worthy of writing in it's entirety "For every free political prisoner, an Israeli colony is expanded. For each greeting, a thousand houses were demolished. They use the press so they can manufacture..."
This. Is. Dangerous.
I'm not even sure where to begin (though beginning in the middle of a long post is odd).
The ONLY mention of Jews or Israel is in regards to Arabs or Palestine (where it's only done so derogitoraly)
The ONLY movement mentioned that is aimed at another country is BDS, which, besides for its innate issues (in short it's anti-semitic), when given such prominence, lends credence to the view that the Jews are unique in the annals of villainy. And it mentions it without ANY hint as to the complexity of the Israel/Palestine history. Just "Israel bad, Palestine good".
And since Jews aren't an ethinicity or anything g it's all too easy to just think of it as just more whites colonizing brown people (which is how many see it).
Let's do one more "by the numbers"
In 2017 there were (accordion to FBI stats) 973 hate crimes against Jews That's 1 out of 5400 314 hate crimes against Muslims That's 1 of 10950 What about against Blacks? 2358 hate crimes against blacks That's 1 out of 15500
Jews are more likely to be targeted in a hate crime than ANY OTHER MINORITY.
But people don't know this because of courses and ideologies like this.
Yet Anti-semitism doesn't get mentioned even once.
White supremacy is discussed, but the anti-semitism that is a central theme of white-supremacy is noticeably absent.

It's not a micro-aggression, or a perceived slight. It's straight up anti-semitism, it's brainwashing, and it's dangerous.
End rant//

