To whom it may concern,
I recently saw the proposed ethics curriculum for teaching ethic studies in public high schools in California. As a Jew with young children in California's public school system, and as a citizen of the world, I find it terrifying. The Holocaust was not so long ago, and already there are people out there trying to demonize Jews and Israel. I can't understand why this happens over and over again. Our people make up such a small percentage of the world, that is why there is such a strong need for a "safe" place like Israel. A place that protects its national Jewish identity while also creating equal rights, freedoms and a safe haven for other people including Muslims, Christians, homosexuals, women, etc. It seems no matter how hard we try to make the world a better place, through charity, education, medical, scientific, technological, etc. advancements, the hate always comes back to haunt us.
I don't feel that all the people who support BDS have bad intentions, many are just misinformed. Clearly they want improved conditions for the Palestinian people, which is important and justified. However, they don't seem to realize that it's the leaders of the Palestinian government, who refuse to compromise and want to "wipe Israel and the Jewish people off the face of the earth." The Palestinian government prioritizes killing Jews and destroying Israel, rather than helping its own people. I can't understand how our state government could even consider promoting these efforts and propagating such hate.
Please do not allow this type of curriculum to poison our school system. This is one of the ways Hitler became so powerful. Already, the hate crimes again our people have been increasing. Please use the school system to teach tolerance and true ethics, not hate.
Thanks for your consideration.
Here are a few links that might help give you some more perspective:
https://unitedwithisrael.org/an-eloquent-response-by-a-scottish-professor-to-israelboycotters/amp/?fbclid=IwAR3_zjHfwG1gdewvODHK9G6MA5SMGiuyPTqns39ELMvaki WlbqplfZKDDhw
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/alan-dershowitz-debating-the-anti-semitic-bdsmovement-with-cornel-west
https://www.facebook.com/StandWithUs/videos/10156467433067689/?v=10156467433 067689
Thanks, Bonnie Egnal Menlo Park, CA

