As an educator I have concerns regarding the proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum. While it's important to address the negative impacts some systems of power have; isn't also important to address the idea that all systems of power contribute positively and negatively to society? By providing a biased negative slant, which I believe this framework does, you are not providing students with enough information for them to synthesize and form their own opinions.
It seems the framework comes at this subject from a completely negative point of view. And while yes it is important to recognize how the majority culture has dominated, suppressed and devalued the "other" it is just as important, or maybe more so, to point out how the "other" has survived and thrived.
Also why is there an Arab/American Studies Course Outline, but no Jewish/American Course Outline? Has California forgotten how anti-Semitic this country, as well as this state has been? Is it not important to discuss the cause and rise again of anti-Semitic dialogue and actions? Has California forgotten that there have been more anti-Semitic acts of violence than Anti-Arab recently?
Specifically, how BDS is addr3ssed is very troubling. Many citizens regard BDS as an organization that ultimately seeks the destruction of Israel and distorts the situation in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Any discussion of BDS must be must be presented in a fair, unbiased manner. The way the framework is currently written it leads on to believe that the Jews/Israel are part of the dominant culture and should therefore be despised.
Unless you balance this new ethnic studies curriculum I believe you are doing future generations a disservice by providing a biased one-sided view, which can only lead to more misunderstanding and hatred.
I join many others in urging you to prevent any future attempts to hijack our state's educational curricula by establishing robust safeguards capable of ensuring that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, and all other state-sponsored curricula and instructional materials, may not be created or used as tools of political indoctrination that promote hatred and incite harm against any race, religion, group or individual.
Thank you,
Leslie Cohen

