From: Glenda Urmacher Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 8:22 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Teaching ethnic studies
Dear Gentle People, I grew up and lived for 4 years in an upstate New York community that never met Jews, didn't know what we looked like, what we ate, how we observed our religion, but never the less hated Jews because that was what they were taught in the home, their schools, and their religious institutions. I wasn't from a particularly Jewish home environment. We didn't belong to a synagogue, but I accompanied my bubbe ( grandmother) to `shul' on High Holy Holidays--Rosh Hashonah, Yom Kippur, Passover. And I was told 'I didn't look Jewish', whatever that was suppose to be. Nevertheless, I was called a `Jew Bitch' in a public school classroom full of students with a teacher present. Everyone thought that so funny, teacher included, but I slugged that name caller, who happened to be the son of our family doctor. I unintentionally opened up his cheek from his cheekbone down to his jaw. There were reprocussions, his father made him apologize to me, but that class, and that teacher had it in for me for the rest of the time we lived there. That was in the fifties; We moved to Palos Verdes, and my only child, a daughter entered the school system, settled in, made friends, and then around the winter holiday, as it is now know, ( Hannukkah, Christmas, Kazwanna) ;the class was asked to draw something for the upcoming holiday (Christmas). So there were the usual Christmas trees, holly wreaths, crosses on a church. My daughter drew a lovely Menorah. The teacher was livid, torn and crumpled the 'masterpiece,' and threw it in the garbage.

My daughter somehow retrieved it, brought it home to me, and I went ballistics. I went to school the next day, spoke with the principal, who reprimanded the teacher for her callousness, and I asked her what was she doing in class for Hannukkah, which happened to fall before Christmas that year. She informed me that she knew nothing about Hannukkah, and asked me to do a program, and what is better than having 6 year olds make potatoes latkes (pancakes) in class for lunch. That was in the 70s; Then it was my grandsons turn to enter the school system. From their talks between themselves, and he said, she said, it seemed to be the same old story, next generation. That was in the 90. People, wake up. Anti semitism is up over 70% in the last decade. Jews are insult by members of our Congress, who would not stand by silently if African Americans or any other group were so insulted. What you need is a curriculum made by people like my Rabbi Shuldenfrei of Cong. Ner Tamid. He has taught classes at St. John Fisher Church, that the kids were wild about. He has taught at preschools as well. And he doesn't propose Judaism for all. He teaches about the Land of Israel , open to all, and its people of varying ethnicities, and color. Call our Rabbi. He might teach you a thing or two about My People, What we have given the World, and all we ask, is to be accepted, as one of you.
Or not, I don't care anymore.

