From: jana hoffman Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 8:36 PM To: Superintendent Subject: Major Revisions urgently needed for ESMC
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very concerned by the strangely unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but I sincerely urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
The proposed curriculum is weirdly skewed to erase the Jewish experience of persecution and the historical context of the current global political situation. Inflammatory positions are taken supporting the ill-advised BDS movement, which seeks to obliterate Israel, without any balancing point of view.
Antisemitism is alive and well in the US and abroad, and antisemitic incidents are rising globally. Denying the perspective of Jewish people in a curriculum designed supposedly "to build a shared understanding of ethnic groups' perspectives and engage minority students in school" is patently biased and prejudiced. The Jewish people remain a vulnerable minority, and are often singled out for attacks. In fact, there are three times as many hate crimes in America against Jews as against Muslims. And yet, there is no attempt to broaden cultural understanding or acceptance of Jewish minorities in this curriculum.
Furthermore, the one-sided framing of the Israeli Palestinian conflict in the ESMC creates a scenario where it's likely that Jewish students may be stereotyped, accused of dual-loyalty, harassed and forced to face social litmus tests. This will only increase hostility towards Jewish minority students in this volatile political climate.
I emphatically urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these serious concerns.
Thank you, Jana Hoffman

