From: Leah Baars Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 4:35 PM To: Ethnic Studies; Tony Thurmond Subject: Subject; Proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum
To: CA Department of Education and the ESMC Committee:
For the first time I am SCARED to be a Jew in California. I am a Holocaust SURVIVOR and child of survivors. I worked in the Public Schools of California for 36 years. First as a teacher in Los Angeles in Watts after the riots because I was an idealist and wanted to teach children so they could become successful whatever their background. After 4 years I moved to San Francisco where I spent 32 years as, first a teacher, then a counselor (MA SFSU 72) and the last 25 years before I retired, as a School Psychologist (MS Educational Psychology) USF.
Never did I discriminate between people and considered the kids all equal and worthy. I feel THREATENED because of the Anti-Semitism and hatred of Jews and Israel reflected in your proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum!
Ignoring the fact that JEWS have been discriminated against for 2,000 years and been killed off so much that there are now only 14 million world wide while there are over 3 BILLION Christians and Muslims. Yet the Jews still get blamed for all the trouble in the world. Look at the real statistics and you will find that more Jews and Jewish institutions get attacked in the USA than Christian and Muslim combined.
Ignoring the Jewish contributions to the USA and California is a shameful fact as well as not considering Jews as a worthwhile minority to cover positively as you do in so many Ethnic Studies Programs, particularly in the CA Universities is very disturbing and unsetting.
Please do some research on the facts of the Boycott Divest and Slander (!) movement in its well financed Anti-Semitic attempt to wipe Israel off the earth as the only Jewish state. In my thinking, the ONLY COUNTRY in the while world of more than 200 countries where Jews are able to defend themselves.
With hope for a more balance approach to the MIddle East problems, Sincerely,
Leah Baars

