From: Wendy Levine [mailto:wrlevine@gmail.com] Sent: Monday, August 12, 2019 10:00 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Cc: Tony@tonythurmond.com; Tony Thurmond <TThurmond@cde.ca.gov> Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
We are disturbed by your proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. We support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but recommend that you make certain revisions to its structure and content. We refer to the the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter and ask you to consider the following ideas:
Your curriculum makes no reference to the anti-semitism that has appeared at various stages in American history. Jews have been excluded or substantially limited by quotas: not being allowed to attend certain Universities and graduate schools, not hired by certain corporations and law firms, and not being admitted to some country clubs, fraternities and sororities. We refer you to the book and film Gentlemen's Agreement which dealt with these issues. This is especially distressing because in recent years Jews and Jewish Congregations have been the targets of violence and hate crimes that have resulted in considerable loss of life.
Of equal concern are the statements that are anti-Jewish and ant-Israel statements that appear in your syllabus. We specifically refer to the reference to the BDS movement which appear with no balancing perspective. Israel is not mentioned as a sovereign nation but is referred to as Israel-Palestine. In addition there is a rap verse which includes the concept that Jews control the media.
The groups who are mentioned in your curriculum certainly have experienced and continue to experience discrimination and even violence. These are rightly covered in a comprehensive manner beginning with their historical beginnings and continuing to the present manifestations. However, the omission and the out of context references to which we have referred skew and distort the historical accuracy of the curriculum to the point that is lacking in balance and perspective.
We strongly urge you to make the above-mentioned changes.
Thank you, Carl and Wendy Levine

