From: DIna Bernat-Kunin Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 8:16 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethinic Studies proposed curriculum
Dear Mr. Mc Donald, I am writing you feeling very strong concern for the current proposal for the Ethnic Studies Curriculum developed by the California Department of Education. I think it is deeply flawed and absolutely, in it proposed form, totally unfit for use. It contains material falsehoods, misrepresentation and exclusions of necessary facts and foundational information. It is painfully clear that those who authored this were not able to contain their clear and strong anti Israel bias and that this has caused them to act in a completely unprofessional manner. The lack of safety that this curriculum with create for Jewish students all over California is not in line with the true goals of your department. It is very upsetting that no one from your department has noticed the problems in the curriculum and has brought your own objections in order to make the large changes necessary in advance of this now being public. Given this, in my opinion not only are the authors implicated in the anti Semitism and anti Israel, and anti Zionism content and intent, but you are all equally implicated.
I believe that the proposed curriculum does the following: Please refer to Chapter 2 ( Introduction to Ethnic Studies course outline and Arab American Studies Course outline)
 Poses a material threat to the safety and civil rights of pro-Israel, Jewish and Israeli-American students.
 Jews and Israeli-Americans are intentionally excluded from the curriculum.
 Contradicts the public policy and compromises the integrity and reputation of the California Educational System.
 Demonizes Israel  Uses anti-Israel double standard to suggest that BDS is a liberation
movement and not a movement with its goal of the total annihilation of the State of Israel. It is in their charter.  Delegitimizes other social movements by equivocating them with BDS.  It gives credence to the anti-Semitic Nation of Islam with its leader who has called Jews 'termites' and referring to Judaism as a 'gutter religion'. He also claimed that Jews and Zionists took part in 9/11 terror attacks. And this is who you are promoting in the classroom?  Equivocates Israel with historic American injustices.  Teaches students that factual integrity is not important.  Rap song demonizes Israel and Zionism ( pages 264-270. Lines 56925829.  Glorifies anti-Semitic figures as role models.

Thank you for your attention to this extremely concerning issue that relates to the education and safety of our children. Not only do I expect significant changes to be made but that your department bring on an educator that can hold and create a balanced curriculum offering an unbiased view of the differing prospectives on all of the information included in the curriculum. In addition I feel that the Jewish community is owed a deep apology recognizing the above noted issues. If no changes are made to this curriculum then I hope your department is planning how you are going to keep Jewish students safe in our schools.
Dina Bernat-Kunin California Resident and parent of 4 children.

