From: Yael Wieder Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 2:48 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Opposition to Ethnic Studies Requirement
Dear representatives:
The proposal to add an ethnic studies requirement as a part of high school education is divisive and serves only to incite hate and prejudice.
First of all, the proposed curriculum for these courses reflects bias to promote some cultures, while admonishing and inciting hate toward others. This type of instruction does not belong in public schools. We already have hateful actions and conflicts in schools, introducing instruction on certain races/cultures would only serve to incite more seclusion and hate.
Additionally, there is no possibility to provide an opportunity for every ethnicity to study their own culture and history of their own background. Some students of certain backgrounds will be afforded that privilege, and others will be excluded and not offered such a course. Nor is there any rhyme and reason as to why certain cultures are excluded while others are not. I'm certain that public schools do not have the means to offer courses on immigrants for every country/race/ethnicity in the world, so why pick some as 'worthy of teaching' and others not.
Movements that promote bias and incite hate - such as BDS - should never be taught in public school (or any school for that matter). If people want to hate, they can do so; but they shouldn't be taught to hate in publicly funded school.
Most school campuses are already divided, with many students choosing to "hang out" with people of their same background. These proposed courses would only increase the divide between the students of different cultures by focusing on their differences rather than by creating opportunities to work together and feel united.
The ethnic studies requirement is a bad idea - and the proposed curriculum is unequivocally and unapologetically antisemitic and biased.
Teach information, not hate. Teach inclusiveness, not divisiveness.
As adults and representatives, you should know better than to allow this proposal to proceed.
Thank you,
Yael Wieder

