August 13, 2019 Re: 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Feedback Dear Sirs, Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on the Model Curriculum. I am very concerned about the implications of using the information to educate students and the impact this will have on the future of California as well as the country if this is widely adopted. I have provided specific comments below and appreciate your consideration in not allowing this curriculum to be adopted unless it undergoes significant revision. Thank you again.
Sincerely,
Recoverable Signature
X Rita Shane
Signed by: 4e7c537e-263a-46fa-9cc8-c65b5b5b174e
Rita Shane

Chapter of Model
Curriculum General

Your Name and Affiliation

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)

Rita Shane

While the objective of the model curriculum is to provide students with an understanding of ethnicities and, in particular, cultures that are not always recognized and respected, the curriculum's prominent focus is on the Arab community at the expense of other cultures and is also clearly anti-Israel. As a mother and grandmother, I am appalled that a curriculum that is significantly imbalanced and biased would be used to train students in California. Rather than promoting understanding and respect of different communities, this curriculum will generate more racial discrimination and anti-Israel sentiments. As parents and citizens in California, at a time when we are promoting gender equality, shouldn't cultural equality be what we teach children? We have a responsibility to provide balanced, accurate content for our children rather than a curriculum primarily focusing on one culture alone that is clearly biased. There is no mention of the Jewish culture or the Holocaust in the entire 300 pages. In contrast, Islamophobia is cited 60 times. Specific sections: Page 2, line 30, BDS definition support anti-Israel actions Pages 234, line 4957 states "Call to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction Israel" Page 242, line 5160 references dispersal of Palestinian Arabs from Israel in 1948 without mention of the Holocaust and the need for Jewish people to find a safe community in which to live Page 246, line 5486 references English, Spanish and Arabic-there are certainly other languages that underrecognized or marginalized cultures speak Pages 264-269 reference numerous cultures and countries along with songs. Israel and Jewish people are noticeably absent

California Department of Education, June 2019

