From: Dawson Allen - College Account Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 4:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies in California Schools
To whom it may concern:
Having looked at the draft for the proposed new curriculum on ethnic studies, I must state my thoughts about it.
Regarding "hxrstory," "cisheteropatriarchy," the "four Is of oppression," as well as other subjects within the curriculum, I avidly oppose these as being subjects which are taught within public schools. I also stand against the blatant and obvious anti-Semitism contained within the curriculum.
My reasons for opposing this new curriculum are these:
1. Many of these subjects are highly subjective. They are only relevant on an emotional level. They are only accurate from one point of view, and are highly influenced by personal opinion. Not only this, but one individual's opinion may differ drastically from another's on these subjects, and this is due to the subjectivity of them. Many are based more on opinion rather than verifiable facts.
2. These subjects are politically influenced. Public schools should strive to provide a well-rounded but neutral education for the children who reside within their boundaries. No political influence should have sway over the courses at these schools.
3. In connection with the last point, these courses are designed to push children toward a specific political ideology.
4. These courses, in multiple places, promote prejudice against those who are not transgender, those who are heterosexual, and men. This is pointed out in the newly invented term, "cisheteropatriarchy," which insinuates that those who are "cis," heterosexual, and male have some privilege over society. It also suggests that others who do not have these particular attributes are not allowed these same privileges. I adamantly oppose these ideas because it promotes a false sense of what a certain identity entails. Each child should have the right to decide who they are without influence coming from an institution funded by the taxpayer.
5. This curriculum refers to Palestine as being an actual country, whether directly or through the opinions of popular artists. At one point, that country may have existed, but the nation that currently stands there is Israel. This would be akin to saying Mexico is Spain, or saying the eastern, central, and western United States are the United Kingdom, France, and Mexico, respectively. Referring to Israel as Israel-Palestine or even Israel/Palestine is a disservice to this country and is a political move. Public schools have the obligation to teach accurate details about history, math, science, geography, and other courses.
I would recommend that this curriculum be removed in its entirety. However, if it must remain, it should be an elective course which students may choose to take. It should not be required in any way. Sincerely, a concerned citizen, Dawson Allen

