August 13th, 2019
Soomin Chao Chair, Instruc8onal Quality Commission California Department of Educa8on Ehtnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
RE: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Chairwoman Chao,
This leGer confirms our submission of a leGer of complaint, following our review of the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), which we are delivering on behalf of more than 13,000 concerned community members.
Founded in Los Angeles in 2007, the Israeli American Council (IAC) serves hundreds of thousands of IsraeliAmericans and Jewish Americans in more than 62 communi8es through its 20 regional offices na8onwide, four of which are located in California. We are ac8ve on more than 100 campuses na8onwide.
Israeli-Americans are an integral part of a thriving Jewish American community in California, with an es8mated 300,000 residing in the state.
Our community holds grave concerns about the DraV 2020 Ethnic Studies Curriculum, which must undergo significant changes to ensure that students and teachers are educated about different forms of hatred in a way that is inclusive of the Jewish People, recognizing our place as an ethnic minority in the United States. In this respect, the reference to the Boyco;, Divestment and Sanc?ons (BDS) Movement must be removed along with the biased and poli?cized references to Israel.
As outlined in our detailed review, the ESMC, as wriGen, would turn our public schools into a hos8le environment for Jewish American, Israeli American and Zionist students. It would ins8tu8onalize discrimina8on against an en8re immigrant minority, based on their na8onal origin and ethnicity. I am sure the commiGee would agree that this is neither the purpose of ESMC nor the values of the State of California.
We ask the DOE to completely remove the document as soon as possible from its website un?l this curriculum is updated. This document has already legi8mized hate and discrimina8on, and may inspire more.

While we respect the process of public discussion around this proposal, we are deeply concerned about the safety of our children and all Jewish students, who would undoubtedly face harassment, bullying and discrimina8on in the classroom if this narra8ve is introduced, par8cularly at a 8me of rising an8-Semi8sm na8onwide, and par8cularly in California. The IAC stands ready to assist in the work of improving this curriculum to ensure that it is inclusive. We would welcome the opportunity to meet at your earliest convenience to discuss how we can work together in this effort.
Sincerely,
Shoham Nicolet
Chief Execu8ve Officer Israeli American Council (IAC)
Israeli American Council's Board of Directors: Adam Milstein, Chairman of the Board. Naty Saidoff, Incoming Chairman. Shawn Evenhaim, Chairman Emeritus. Danny Alpert, Chairman Emeritus. Avi Almozlino. Gilly Arie. Rachel Chafetz. Tamir Cohen. Rachel Davidson. Kfir Gavrieli. Alon Mor. Jacky Teplitzky. Miri Shepher. Yossi Rabinovitz.
CC: The Honorable Governor Gavin Newsom The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruc8on The Honorable Jose Medina, Assembly member The Honorable Ben Allen, State Senator, IQC member The Honorable Jessie Gabriel, Assembly member The Honorable Patrick O'Donnell, Assembly member Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Educa8on Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Director, Instruc8onal Quality Commission

