From: Lilach Arad Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 2:15 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Input into 2020 Ethnic studies
Dear California Department of Education,
Below is my input into 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I strongly urge you to create curriculum that to combat, rather than promote anti-Semitism as your model curriculum does at this point.
Sincerely,
Lilach Arad
The glossary, page 2, lines 29-40 provides a one-sided definition of Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions."
As Israel does not have an apartheid system either within Israel proper or in Area C, accusing Israel of apartheid meets the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA)'s working definition of antiSemitism, which has been adopted by the UK, EU, Canadian federal government, US State Department, and many other nations.
Moroever, the purpose of BDS, as stated by its co-founder and leading activists, Omar Barghouti, is to end the existence of Israel, the only Jewish state.
Chapter 2
Page 234, lines 4956-4958 creat a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico. In doing so, it demonizes Israel, once again meeting the criteria of the IHRA's working definition of anti-Semitism.
It also promotes a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine (p. 234) and so indirectly encourages students to advocate for the destruction of Israel.
Page 242, lines 5157-5161 once again provides a one-sided, anti-Israel view of the 1948 War, with no coverage the Jewish experience.
Page 256, lines 5477-5494, pages 264-270, lines 5692-5830 encourage teachers to use an anti-Israel poem which insinuates Jews control the media and use it to manipulate the public - a common, and quintessential, antisemitic slur.
More generally, the Introduction of the proposed curriculum states that "[t]he implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to...enable students to develop a deep appreciation for

cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism." However, the curriculum does not include a single lesson about the Jewish community or antisemitism.
With antisemitism rising, the exclusion of Jews and antisemitism from this curriculum is not only educationally deficient but aids and abets the rise of antisemitism within our society.

