To all concerned: I have been aware of the BDS movement for several years. I initially learned about it when student members of the UCLA governing board voted to deny a certain young man the right to run for student body president because he had received a free trip to Israel from the Birthright foundation. To make a long story short, Eugene Block, then UCLA chancellor, and also Janet Napolitano, then UC head, moved quickly and came out against the student board's recommendation. I feel that it is unfortunate that college students on many campuses feel the need to take political stands on positions that they all too frequently know little about. I remember when Rigberta Menchu from Guatemala received the Nobel Peace prize. She stood up for the truly oppressed indigenous people of her country. Since her award, many peoples all over the world have managed to associate their oppressed political and economic situations with her cause. The trouble is of course that each people's struggle is unique, and the media tend to conflate them all, and most of us do not know enough about them to have an informed opinion. This is, in my opinion, is the reality surrounding the BDS and the Israel/Palestinian situation. When Clinton was president, he had a meeting at the end of his presidency in Camp David. Then Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak and PLO chief Yasir Arafat were there. The Palestinians were offered 98% of what they wanted, but Arafat walked away. Many Palestinians would give their eye teeth to live under a democratic government such as Israel's. Palestinian leaders spend most of their time intimidating their people, misspending monies received to help them economically, and spreading negative propaganda about Israel. Many Palestinians have been lucky enough to receive medical treatment in Israel's hospitals.

It is most certain that the Palestinians would be much better off to work WITH Israel, rather than against her. They could spend their time being productive, if their leaders would let them. Please do not promote an anti Jewish or Israeli curriculum in the state of California. It would serve no constructive purpose and would exacerbate an already very unfortunate propaganda war. Thank you very much for your time and consideraton. Sincerely, Judith G Krieger Macpherson, Ph. D

