From: Kay Flewelling Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 12:24 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear California Instructional Quality Commission and State Board of Education,
My name is Kay Flewelling. I am a doctoral candidate at the University of San Diego and a former high school teacher. I am writing in support of the model curriculum that is being developed by the state of California for ethnic studies. It is critical that all of our students -- from every background, ethnicity, culture, and skin color -- have access to curriculum where they can see themselves and their stories. Studies have demonstrated the critical importance of students being able to learn about their unique histories, not just for students of color, but for students with European ancestry. America is a radical experiment of bringing together a diversity of values, and yet, our school curriculums were developed with little attention to that diversity. It is so important that California is making strides to make changes to that tradition by creating this model curriculum.
I believe that this curriculum will help provide not only tangible support for educators looking to diversify their content, but also makes an important statement to the nation right now in a time of great divisiveness. We believe that out of many, we are one. We believe in the fundamental American ideals upon which this nation was founded, and the ability of public schools as institutions to be stewards of these values. When school curriculum continues to promote ideologies of supremacy, or to uplift only "the great men," we perpetuate wrongful ideas that it is only great men who have made history. In fact, history is created by all of us -- wealthy, poor, men, and women, from all cultures -- and it is in our diversity that we are great.
I applaud this curriculum, as a scholar and as an educator, and am appreciative that California is once again leading the way for our nation.
Sincerely,
Kay Flewelling Adjunct Faculty / Doctoral Candidate University of San Diego
May your heart open everyday, your smile, always sincere and sweet.

