Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education, I am upset by the proposed and unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others. I am an an educator in the Bay Area working at Mountain View high school with immigrant students and mainstream students. I have a California Social Studies Credential and a Masters in Education with an emphasis on cross cultural teaching. The accurate, deep history of any peoples on our globe is significant and should always be taught with balance and allow for students to research, and utilize their critical thinking skills. It is not possible to analyze World War II without discussing anti semitism and the resulting Holocaust as a result of Adolf Hitler's final solution. It is not possible to explain the United Nations recognition of Israel as a nation in 1948 without acknowledging the independent rights of the Jewish people. Current politics regarding Israeli governmental policy, the suffering of the Palestinian people and the freedom to criticize both Israel and the BDS movement must be part of an open, free and honest educational process. We do not want children to be ignorant of the facts and underlying conflicts or suffering of both the Jewish people and Palestinians. This would be very much like the Chinese Communist party denial of its murdering of thousands of student protesters in Tianamen Square, or to downplay the truth of enslavement of Black people in America. It is not possible to explain the surge of anti Semitic actions taken against Jewish people, cemeteries and synagogues, including murders in Pittsburg without discussing Jewish people as an ethnic group. Much of the rise of anti Semitism has been well documented by the ADL and other groups tracking hate crimes. I am perplexed by the removal of the term anti Semitism or reference to Jews as an Ethnic group in the state of California. With thousands of years of history that stem from the Middle East, through the Diaspora and into modern times, Jews have maintained an identity and traditions which bind us as a peopl. This has a personal impact on me, as I am proud to be a Jewish woman who has raised proud Jewish men who believe in equality and inclusion. California is the inclusion state and we set the pace for welcoming the stranger and those of all backgrounds. My family is a mixed race family of Mexican heritage, African Americans and Jews. It is simply unacceptable for my sons heritage to be erased. It is unacceptable for Jews to be minimized or erased from this discussion of ethnicity in our schools at any age of our public education. It is extremely painful as I have just visited a dear 92 year friend who survived Auschwitz. Her entire family was murdered, she is sole survivor. I ask you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns. I wish I had know this was happening sooner and am shocked that it has come to this in the great state of California. Please stop this from becoming any official recommendation and rewrite this proposed curriculum in a manner that honors and respects the contributions of Jews to our state, nation and the world. And also allows for Jewish students to sit in a classroom and share their personal experience as well as their differences with Israel or Palestinian ideology. I urge you to listen to the Jewish Caucus in the Assembly, I urge you to listen to your conscience and not create a revisionist history of our world or the USA. Thank you, Leslie Nassan King

