Dear Ms. Chao and Members of the Commission and the ESMC,
I was very, very disappointed and hurt when I learned about the proposed ESMC. As an American Jew living in California, I was appalled and demeaned to learn about how my history, culture and traditions had been ignored, misunderstood and manipulated.
I would like to draw your attention to following sources of relevant information that I believe that you and your colleagues need to bring into your discussion and into your proposed curriculum.
1. The 2018 Hate Crimes Annual Report from California Attorney General Xavier Bacerra. In the executive summary of the report, he stated that while Hate Crimes in California were reduced amongst many minority groups and were reduced overall, Hate Crimes against Jews rose by 21%. I have attached a copy of this important document to my letter. 2. According to the 2017 Official FBI Hate Crimes report, which has been published annually for many years, 60% of all Hate Crimes in the United States were committed against American Jews, who comprise only 2% of the population. These are scary statistics and are unacceptable. Here is a link to the report https://ucr.fbi.gov/hate-crime/2017/topic-pages/tables/table-1.xls 3. Jews are the only minority group that is being advised by governmental officials at all levels to hire police and armed guards to protect themselves in the synagogues, temples and community centers. Other people of every faith and denomination can pray in peace in the manner they have for generations in our country. But not the Jews. 4. Anti-Semitism. No hatred has as rich and as lethal a history as anti-Semitism--"the longest hatred" as noted historian Robert Wistrich has dubbed it. Over the millennia, anti-Semitism has infected a multitude of peoples, religious, and civilizations, in the process inflicting a host of terrors on its Jewish victims. Since 2010, the U.S. Department of State has joined with 35 other countries in accepting the International Human Rights Association (IHRA) definition of antiSemitism. The California Department of Education should formally accept that definition also. The endorsement from both the Obama and Trump Administrations signals wide acceptance across the political spectrum. https://www.state.gov/defining-anti-semitism/ 5. The Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles is an outstanding resource that can be rewarding to students and to teachers. I would urge the members of the ESMC to visit it as a group and is a wonderful learning experience classes of students. Over 350,000 people a year visit the museum. http://www.museumoftolerance.com/
Sincerely yours,
Morey Schapira

