From: Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 5:34 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Concerns about Anti-Semitic bias in the ESMC
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very troubled and concerned by the unbalanced and flawed proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I fully support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
I am a parent and an educator myself, and a Jew who is the descendent of Holocaust survivors and feels increasingly targeted and unsafe in America where I have lived my entire life. Jews have been persecuted and discriminated against our entire history. It would be absurd and an outrage for any Ethnic Studies curriculum to leave out a discussion of anti-Semitism and the continuing history of widespread hatred of Jews that has led to the targeted, assassination-style deaths of Jews as recently this year in Pittsburgh. My daughter will be a student in LAUSD as she grows up and I cannot tolerate the thought of her being subjected to a curriculum so biased against Jews and so insidiously laced with anti-Semitism itself when the ostensible point of such a curriculum would be to counter prejudice, discrimination, and anti-Semitism. How could this curriculum be allowed to be proposed in this form? Who are the authors responsible for these major mistakes and how could their anti-Semitic agenda be allowed to go unchecked? I am very worried and upset by this.
Despite the significant contributions of Jews to California's history, politics, culture, and government - and our community's longstanding struggle against hatred and discrimination - the ESMC erases the Jewish experience in America. The exclusion is deeply offensive, inaccurate, untruthful, and inconsistent with the purpose of ethnic studies to promote inclusion and tolerance.This is especially indefensible in light of rising anti-Semitism in America and on college campuses in particular. Somehow, bafflingly, the ESMC omits mention of anti-Semitism even though three times as many hate crimes are committed against Jews in America as Muslims, while the ESMC devotes much material to Islamophobia. There is a sacred

obligation to be accurate and truthful and fair when educating our children. Public schools must get this right - most of all in the context of an ethnic studies curriculum!! - and not become a mouthpiece for anti-Semitic tropes and propaganda. What is going on?!
I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you, Sarah Lehrer-Graiwer

