Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I understand that the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that has recently caused such a stir has been withdrawn and that a new draft will be developed for the State of California. I am writing to express my gratitude for this withdrawal, but also my deep concern as to how this curriculum was developed in the first place.
There are glaring omissions of multiple ethnic groups that have been systematically oppressed and marginalized, including, but not limited to Jewish-Americans. This is absolutely shocking and dismaying, particularly given the current state of world events and the sharp rise in anti-Semitic incidents that have been documented over the past few years. It is also a slap in the face to those of us who are descendants of Holocaust survivors-- the fact that their struggle to survive has no value in the proposed ESMC is astonishing and painful.
Your glossary includes definitions of Racism, Islamophobia, Homophobia (ironically, by your very own definition of ethnicity, the LGBTQ community is NOT an ethnic group, but is included in your discussion of ethnic studies; Jews, who clearly meet the definition you describe, are entirely omitted from your discussion). However, it (presumptively by design) does not include the one ethnic group in this world which has experienced THE most discrimination and oppression over the course of recorded human history, the Jews. In your curriculum, you make zero mention of the Jewish community (and I've done a word-search), nor is any mention made of the term anti-Semitism. In fact, the only mentions of Jews in the proposed curriculum (in the section on Arab-American immigration to the US), erroneously claim that Jews coming from Arab countries are actually ethnically Arab (this is patently false). There is literally no mention of the Jewish experience or of the rampant anti-Jewish hatred we have experienced.
This glaring omission can only be driven by one ideology: the continuous misunderstanding of the original intent of intersectionality and its unfortunate use as a tool for anti-Israel bias. And the fact that your committee on this proposed curriculum has on it several documented haters of Israel and supporters of BDS (which most Jews consider to be an anti-Semitic movement) only renders the entire curriculum tainted with anti-Semitism.
I am a life-long Democrat and generally consider myself to be a Centrist who veers left on many issues. However, I must say that I was also disturbed to find that the tone and content of this curriculum are clearly reflective of Marxist leanings and belie a desire to indoctrinate young and impressionable schoolchildren to a one-sided, unbalanced worldview. For example, to essentially define Capitalism as an institution of racism is dishonest, myopic, and dangerous.
I have higher expectations of my elected officials and of the committee members they select. Once again, I wish to express gratitude to you for your recent decision, but am bewildered as to how we got here in the first place. I anticipate that the next draft will include more balanced perspectives and omit the example of BDS as a social justice movement (as it is a movement intended only to eliminate the one homeland to the Jewish people).
Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Dahlia Carr

