From: Monica Slone Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 7:50 PM To: Kenneth McDonald Ethnic Studies Subject: Fwd: Protest against the proposed ethnic studies curriculum as it is proposed will be a tool for anti semitism.
Please let me know if you can open this. I would appreciate it if I could fax this to you. My computer/scanner only makes a pdf file and I had to paste this onto a word document. I don't know if you can read it.
Monica Slone
Hello commitee members.
I am very concerned, as a Jew, a mental health professional and a credentialed school psychologist. The new curriculum as proposed will foment more hate against Jews. It is very frightening to me as well as to many Jews and educators. It is similar to the propaganda set out by nazi Germany in it's early stages. Tthere are so many hate crimes against Jews. We are a group that is number one in hate crimes against us. This curriculum will just make it worse.
Please reconsider what you are proposing. It is not a fair representation of Jews. It will foment more hate crimes against Jews. Personally, my children's cousin was murdered for being gay and Jewish. You may have read about it, Blaze Bernstein was murdered by an old classmate Sam Woodward. Sam was sent to Attomwaffen training by his parents when he was 17 years old. He murdered a young man with a lot of potential to do good in our society. However, he is gone. After the murder, the Attomwaffen were praising Sam for a double header i.e. murdering a Jew and a gay.
Please think about what you are doing. Jews contribute greatly to society. We are just a small population but many Jewish scientists etc. contribute to society so we have won,as a people, a disproportionate number of Nobel Prizes. Israel is responsible for computer and cell phone technology as well as many medical contributions.
Thank you for your consideration in the serious and frightening matter.
Monica Slone MFT14951 LPCC180 California Credentialed School Psychologist Acorde Ave. Palmdale, CA 93550

