From: Andrew Greydays Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 10:03 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comment on ethnic studies class
I am completely opposed to the idea of requiring schools to teach this. This class incredibly biased and is clearly politically motivated, classrooms are supposed to be teaching skills we need to know, they are not for spreading political messages. It's fine to have these classes available but the idea that these classes should be mandatory in order to graduate is completely dystopian. This class reeks of brainwashing and indoctrination. People who disagree with the message of this class will probably be given poor grades for expressing their opinions, and will be forced to conform to the class in order to even pass it. How is this not dystopian brainwashing? I find it completely unacceptable, this kind of class is something that should be optional. I'm pretty opposed to a lot of the classes that are required to graduate high school and college, there are so many things ive never needed to learn about that I learned in high school. But this is just beyond the pale, it's one thing to require a right brained person who wants to be an artist to take a bunch of challenging math classes they don't understand that teach skills they will never use and will probably forget about the moment the class is over, or to require students to learn a new language that they will completely forget about once they've graduated, but to actually forcefully indoctrinate students with regressive politically correct identity politics... how can this be something people are even considering? This would be the liberal equivalent of Alabama requiring prayer in school and teaching a class about "why homosexuality is immoral" and "why African americans are biologically inferior" and "why a week old fetus deserves more rights then a fully developed adult woman" or some such nonsense. If someone wants to willingly take this class that's great but the fact you want to force people to take this class is ridiculous. Please do not do this. Keep it optional. This will cause tons of chaos and is a step towards California becoming an authoritarian 1984 dystopian society.

