From: Dr. Russell Ellis Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 12:20 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Hxstory
Dear Committee,
Are you serious?! A re-interpretation of the movements that have created mass confusion and disorientation, lack of tolerance and inability to deal with life is what you have done with this proposal. Embedded in these comments are hostilities toward all who will not advocate for a mindset where anything goes, and nothing matters. Where society has embraced these "woke" ideas, there is disregard for authority, and a disrespect or frank ostracism for any who do not comprehend or disagree. Forcing "undisciplinary" information from a judgmental position against Caucasians puts children "not of Native people/s or color" in the crosshairs of derision and bullying. Consider one of the opening paragraphs:
"The field critically grapples with the various power structures and forms of oppression, including, but not limited to, white supremacy, race and racism, sexism, classism, homophobia, islamophobia, transphobia, and xenophobia, that continue to impact the social, emotional, cultural, economic, and political experiences of Native People/s and people of color." Who are they talking about? Is it addressing whites that might have fear about black on white crime that makes it impossible to travel throughout a city at night? Is it aimed at evangelical Christians or orthodox Jews who agree with their scriptures that sexual perversion degrades a society? Is it meant to correct the ideology that we should obey our laws when it comes to letting people into this country? Is the hope that trans people will somehow find relief from their confusion and despair, evidenced by the highest suicide rates, if we applaud them versus help them out of their dysphoria? Make no mistake. This is an unabashed flooding of personally destructive, intolerant ideas into the realm of children's educational process. This is institutionalizing a narrative of the religion of Humanism via a POLITICAL (governmental) agenda. If this is implemented, I guarantee that there will be a huge exodus from state-run educational systems. For the sake of the children, families that are already thinking of leaving the state for financial reasons (highest taxes in the country, with the state government continuing to look for new ways to redistribute the income of hard-working people) will have an extra impetus for leaving sooner rather than later. Charter schools will continue to expand, depriving the state-run school districts from valuable resources and a student population that has the freedom to think outside of a narrow ideology. Introduce these ideas in an exploratory college curriculum if you must. At least at that point you have young adults who can study talking points and offer a different position. Love and acceptance can be taught to young people without requiring that they embrace aberrant fringe ideas by the confused minority among us.
Russell Ellis

