-----Original Message----From: Kira Erba Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 7:02 PM To: CFIRD ; Ethnic Studies Subject: Concerns About Ethnic Studies Curriculum
To Whom It May Concern:
I am a California credentialed teacher with over ten years of work experience in the California public schools. Currently, I homeschool my children through one of the state's many charter schools.
I am deeply disturbed by the proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum that is currently under consideration and feel compelled to speak out against it. A lifelong Democrat, I am appalled to see that materials, which so blatantly reveal a political bias, are being considered for use in our state's classrooms.
In the United States, the sanctity of the individual used to be paramount, but it appears that that is no longer the case. The Ethnic Studies curriculum elevates group identity above individual identity and encourages our young people to see themselves or others as victims--or as perpetrators. It attempts to politically indoctrinate students with a belief system that promotes hatred between groups, which I believe is harmful and will lead to conflict and/or violence between both groups and individuals. Additionally, the curriculum is boldly anti-Semitic throughout and patently un-American. The information that has been included--AND what has been omitted--is particularly revealing. The curriculum has an unspoken agenda and many parts of it read like propaganda, based purely on opinion.
We now live in a society in which one of our disaffected youth regularly shoots up a crowd of innocent people. Our state's curriculum should not promote feelings of victimhood nor encourage helplessness in our youth by explaining away all the unfairness of the world with a Marxist trope. Our teaching should not single out Israel for criticism or minimize the fact that Jews are disproportionately the victims of hate crimes. Our curriculum should not be glorifying certain social movements, while turning a blind eye to others that are just as important to our country's narrative. If anything,

our schools should be working to bridge the gaps between peoples instead of using arbitrary characteristics to separate them.
My job as an educator is to help each individual realize his/her full potential. I believe this curriculum hinders me in that pursuit. I would be happy to talk to you about the many parts of this curriculum that I find particularly troubling and objectionable. I have a lot of experience working with California youth and believe my opinion of this curriculum deserves your serious consideration.
Sincerely,
Kira Erba

