Dear Human Beings,
I am shocked and consider this curriculum as propaganda. This is a renunciation of Pluralism as a national ideal, replacing it with Multiculturalism and Diversity. This seeks to replace the goal of civil harmony with racial and cultural distrust and antagonism, encouraging division and trashing the American national motto, "E Pluribus Unum." Where is our country heading by stoking the fires of racism that this curriculum will certainly do? George Orwell said: "history is written by the winners". The education system continues to re-write history. Historical figures are invented to push an identity agenda that did not exist at that point in history. The identity political agenda is a modern phenomenon, and is not supported by historical facts. Apparently, the education system is the winner and America has lost.
Furthermore, Capitalism has reduced the level of poverty in EVERY country that has adopted it since the Industrial revolution. Currently the African American unemployment rate has reached its lowest ever recorded. Also,
 The manufacturing industry created over 300,000 jobs.  337,000 construction jobs have been created since President Trump took office, and
construction employment stands at its highest level since June 2008.  Fourteen states reached record low unemployment rates.  Job openings have reached 6.6 million, the highest level recorded. This competition
should drive wage growth.  Jobless claims reached the lowest level in 45 years (1973).  The number of people dependent on food stamps has fallen by 2.6 million or 6.2% since
January 2017.  The number of people receiving unemployment benefits is running at the lowest level in
45 years.  Average 3% growth the last three quarters- under President Obama, annual growth
averaged 1.9%.
If Capitalism is Racist then what is the alternative- Socialism- Communism- Marxism. Don't be blinded Socialism and Communism and even Marxism have ALL failed!
I whole heartedly object to this curriculum as being part of the California Educational Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
Sincerely,
Paul Adams, taxpayer

