From: Adi Greif Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 9:06 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Request for revisions to include more Jewish history
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education, I love the idea of teaching intersectionality, ethnic studies, and history of minority groups in California schools given our vibrant multicultural context. However, I request you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
I grew up in northern California and was fortunate to have a supportive school system that allowed me to take off major holidays and was very aware of respecting minority cultures. However, my husband grew up in Southern California and in high school was forced to get low grades because teachers scheduled major exams on Yom Kippur and didn't allow any retakes, so he had to miss the exams. My local Jewish community center receives bombing threats on a regular basis. All the synagogues in the area have to hire security and never make the location of holidays public on their website. It is so sad that this is the world we live in, and that the larger community doesn't even know that these problems exist, or the extent to which hate crimes in the U.S. are targeted against Jews.
I think that the curriculum should take into account statistics of how often hate crimes occur against different groups in the United States when deciding whose voices to include. Antisemitism is unfortunately extremely common, and growing, with defacements of gravesites and nazi swastika graffiti on synagogues making the world feel less safe. Islamophobia, antisemitism, racism, obscuring the history of massacres against Native Americans -- these are all related topics and all deserve a voice.
I request you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you, Adi

