From: julie johnson Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 1:29 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Kenneth McDonald Subject: Ethnic Studies - comment from concerned parent
Should the ESMC not be revised substantively, my children will not attend this class.
In no way does the proposed curriculum support the initiative's original objective. Instead of promoting understanding and inclusivity, it promulgates divisiveness and misrepresents historical facts. Many ethnic groups significant in California and in the US are left out
entirely. Israel is depicted hatefully and inappropriately. Anti-semitism is ignored.
I am particularly distressed by the lesson plan on pages 28 and 29 in which students are asked to publicly declare personal situations or experiences. It is an invasion of privacy, an insult to parents and families, and a sure way to humiliate teenagers who do not wish to share aspects of their personal lives. Instead of empowering students, the questions on those pages push some to identify themselves as victims and others as undeserving, over-privileged, spoiled children. Finally, a lesson that delves into the financial circumstances of our students' families in a public forum is offensive and cruel. To that I say, how dare you!
As a parent involved in my local public schools and a supporter of my school district, I am stunned and disappointed by what I've read. I am convinced that the curriculum as it stands is not only poorly drafted, it is dangerous. The initiative's goal of "preparing pupils to be global citizens with an appreciation for the contributions of multiple cultures" has been, in my opinion, largely cast aside in favor of promoting a political agenda. I fully support an effort to teach multi-culturalism, understanding, and acceptance. However, this version of the state's ESMC will have the opposite effect.
I hope the committee charged with the task of rewriting the curriculum will consider our concerns and objections. It won't do the school districts any good to implement a program that is not embraced by parents, teachers, and administrators statewide. Not to mention, what a horrific waste it will be to invest valuable resources in a program that ultimately fails.
"The road to hell is paved with good intentions." Samuel Johnson (and several others)

