From: Gottlieb, Seth Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 9:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am deeply upset by the proposed, unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support and applaud the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class. In our society it is increasingly important that our students are taught the value of tolerance and being open minded so that we do not repeat the atrocities of the past. But such a program is only effective if it addresses the sources and causes of intolerance that are the most pervasive. if it fails to address antisemitism it will, at best, be ineffective and, more likely, will only further increase the prevalence of antisemitism throughout the country. I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
Growing up as a Jewish student in a predominately Christian community, I experienced first hand the bias and mis-information that students had toward Jews.
The failure to address antisemitism in the curriculum is indefensible in light of its rise in America, especially on college campuses. For that reason, I'm astonished and surprised the the ESMC omits any mention of antisemitism. The ESMC addresses other, important matters, such as Islamophopia. But hate crimes against Muslims are not nearly as prevalent as those against American Jews (as demonstrated by the most recent FBS statistics recording 938 antisemitic incidents compared to 273 Islamophobic incidents). I am not suggesting that the curriculum should not address Islamophopia, but I think it represents a failure of the curriculum's purpose that it completely excludes antisemitism.
I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Seth Gottlieb

