From: Halerie Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 12:13 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: comments on CA education program
I am adamantly against the following:
1. Any discriminatory teaching about Israel (or any other ally of the USA), in particular, the BDS movement. It should be illegal, but it should CERTAINLY not be promoted in state run public schools. 2. Glamorization of any/all people who are murderers, especially a person who murders a police officer
3. Any sexual studies program, particularly one that includes abortion information, LBGTQ, and transgender issues. I am opposed to public schools inserting themselves in ANY WAY into sensitive sexual issues - best left to the parent's discretion 4. Other forms of government that have no place in this country, such as socialism or communism, unless you intend to teach the children the truth about that type of governance and how many people have been killed because of it 4. NO publicly funded school should be allowed to teach anything subversive or anti-American. The basics must be taught, to include: reading, writing and arithmetic. However, optional course studies may include:
computer skills arts (LIMITED TO WORLD CLASS ARTISTS) history of the United States (FACTUAL, NOT OPINIONATED) physical education college prep

social studies (NOT TO INCLUDE ANY TEACHER'S PERSONAL OPINIONS) economics (NOT INCLUDING THE DEGRADATION OF THE CAPITALIST SYSTEM) perhaps to include how to read the stock market pages, how to keep a running balance on a personal checking account, how to open an account at a bank, etc. cooking classes sewing classes mechanical and automotive skills biology (FACTUAL AND ACCEPTED BIOLOGY, NOT OPINIONS FROM THE TEACHERS) videography and still camera skills great books (CLASSICAL LITERATURE) great leaders
I'm sure there are many more options for a healthy and safe classes without infringing on parental rights and NO class should be taught with a bias of any kind. Even basic sex ed can be taught in a way that is inoffensive, but informative.
Your state has become an utopia for liberals, leftists, communists and criminality as well as the fringe element. You are aware, I know. If this does not change, and you continue to indoctrinate ALL citizens of CA, as well as young people in public schools, your state will cease to be a functioning part of this United States

of America. These subversive ideaologies must end. And this is a "best practices" place to begin. Teach the youth of CA practical, useful, imaginative and fun things that will engage their young minds. PLEASE limit teaching to those things that will ultimately benefit the pupils and the citizens of your state.
Sincerely, Halerie Borken
-Halerie

