From: Mitchell Ostwald Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 4:53 PM To: CFIRD Cc: Ethnic Studies Subject: Opposition to AB331
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair, Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education
Dear Chairperson Chao:
I am truly alarmed that if AB 331 is approved by the California state legislature in the coming days, every high school student in the state will be required to take an ethnic studies course based on the ESMC before graduating. We are aware that many individuals and groups affiliated with the Jewish community have already written to you about the ESMC's shocking omission of information about American Jews and anti-Semitism, its use of classic anti-Semitic stereotypes, and its blatant anti-Israel bias. This includes the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, who wrote to you that they "cannot support a curriculum that erases the American Jewish experience, fails to discuss anti-Semitism, reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, singles out Israel for criticism and would institutionalize the teaching of anti-Semitic stereotypes in our public schools."
As an public school educated adult, including UCLA, as well as my wife and our three children, we are very concerned over the obvious bias and the dangers this creates. Unless and until safeguards are put in place for ensuring that its drafters will not be permitted to use the model curriculum to promote political, ethnic or religious enmity towards any group, or to weaponize high school students to take action based on such enmity, I fear that whatever model curriculum is adopted by the IQC will have an enormously negative impact on the state's high schools, colleges and universities for years to come.
I strongly urge you, as well as the Board of Education officials and state legislators, to immediately address this consequential problem by establishing safeguards for ensuring that all state-sponsored curricula and other instructional materials may never be created or used as tools of political indoctrination that promote hatred and incite harm against any race, religion, group or individual.

Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,
Mitchell S. Ostwald Law Offices of Mitchell S. Ostwald Sacramento, California

