Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am very concerned and upset by the flawed proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but request you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
My son who is a student at UC San Diego recently experienced anti-semitism when someone scratched a swastika into his car. As an educator at Stanford, I have also experienced swastikas being drawn multiple times.
We have relatives in San Diego who were members of the community that experienced the awful shooting at a synagogue earlier this year. They knew some of the people who passed away very well.
The main issue I have with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is that Anti-Semitism has been excluded from hate crimes/discrimination, even though half of religious-based hate crimes in the United States are against Jews. My family has lived in the United States for over two decades now, and we have had some experiences with Anti-Semtisim throughout. However, we have noticed a large uptick in Anti-Semitic sentiments and crime throughout the country recently. To exclude Anti-Semitism from hate crimes/discrimination is to ignore the very active sentiments that led to the Pittburgh and San Diego synagogue shootings.
It is also quite shocking to me that this curriculum intends to elaborate on the BDS movement, which seeks to erase the state of Israel, without any balancing perspective. The conflict in the Middle East is historically complicated. By only offering one side of the conflict, you are painting it to be "black and white", when it could not be more "grey". This is an incredibly dangerous kind of simplification. It leads to uninformed beliefs of a conflict most know almost nothing about historically.
I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you, Yifat Sharabi-Levine

