From: Gary Leo Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 1:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Comments on Proposed Changes to Ethnic Studies Curriculum
TO: The Instructional Quality Commission of the Board of Education
Dear Commission Member:
I write to express grave concern regarding the proposed changes to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum now being considered by the BOE. Simply stated, it is flawed, unbalanced and misrepresents the realities that exist in the real world.
As an educator and leader in the non-profit world for 50 years, I find the possibility of your implementation of this new curriculum as proposed to be highly disturbing and painful to me and my family!
Allow me to explain.
First and foremost, I absolutely support the notion and immense value of an ethnic studies program and classes. However, the model to teach such classes should be objective, fair unbiased. To that end, I am requesting your revising the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to be made consistent with the recommendations of the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amicha and others communications recently submitted to you.
To be specific:
 Jews have been excluded from ethnic groups.  Anti-Semitism has been excluded from hate crimes/discrimination even though half of
religious-based hate crimes in the U.S are against Jews!  The well documented divisive activities of the BDS movement seeking to erase the State
of Israel has been included without any balancing perspective.  A song containing language suggesting Jews control the media is included in that
curriculum!
So, with all due respect, there is so much on-the-line should you move forward as currently planned! To be clear, if changes to the curriculum are not made, an entire generation of students will be taught anti-Semitism! Furthermore, the curriculum you ultimately approve and put in place here in California is likely to be copied by other states repeating the same egregious mistake with immense ripple effects.
Gentle persons, I respectfully request you immediately review and correct the model curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you in advance for your consideration.

Very truly yours, Gary A. Leo

