From: D Gold Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 7:49 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Public Comment on Draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculuam
I am writing to say that I believe the draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is a very good and thorough basis for the model Curriculum to be adopted next year. I am attaching a copy of the template with some specific comments.
I am a lesbian, who has lived in California for over 40 years. I am also a Jew of European descent (Ashkenazi). I believe the attacks against the model curriculum in the press, and by some members of the Legislature, are unfounded, and are based on a lack of understanding of current requirements for education about the Holocaust, anti-Semitism, the Armenian genocide, and other specified topics. This draft curriculum is meant to support an understanding by all Californians of the experiences and struggles of People of Color in California. This curriculum is long overdue.
I support the draft Curriculum's decision to specifically address the experience of Arab Americans, rather than trying to combine it into a large unit on Asian Americans. Particularly in these times, Arab Americans are singled out, and treated very differently from other groups that geographically are related to the Asian continent. I believe a thorough understanding of Arab American experience will create a better basis for understanding current events, and will protect against racist incidents.
As a lesbian I am proud of the progress our state has made in protecting and educating our queer/trans population, and of the contribution our school system has made in creating a more welcoming society. I believe we should do no less for African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Latinx people, Arab Americans and Pacific Islanders. I hope that as this curriculum develops the school system will offer a deeper understanding of all of the peoples currently excluded from the "mainstream" of American life.
Thank you for your attention.
Sincerely, Deborah Gold, MPH

