From: dedelst102@aol.com Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 2:00 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA Dear Chairperson Chao, Members of the Commission, Ethnic Studies Curriculum Committee Members:
I am writing to join with the many others, Jews and non-Jews, who have expressed their very serious concerns and disappointment with the proposed ESMC. As a California taxpayer, a Jew, a product of California public schools from kindergarten through graduate school, and someone who sent my kids to California's public high schools, I find the proposed ESMC appalling. Rather than repeating in detail the terrible errors, omissions, and prejudice of the proposed curriculum, I am referencing the letter sent by the California Legislative Jewish Caucus. The bottom line is that the proposed curriculum excises Jews as an ethnic group from history, completely ignores centuries of discrimination and persecution against Jews, and makes no mention of the fact that Jews are one of the most frequent targets of threats of violence and violence itself. When the curriculum does mention Jews, it resorts to age-old stereotypes that have helped give rise to the discrimination, persecution, and violence targeting Jews. I also incorporate by reference the letter signed by 83 organizations objecting to the proposed ESMC that also raises very serious objections to how the curriculum came to be developed in the first place. Regardless of a person's particular political and ideological orientation, anyone who believes in a robust and healthy public school system, a system that deserves broad public support, should be appalled by the apparent ease with which a group of people with a clear bias against the only Jewishmajority nation in the world can control a process that results in a curriculum that excises Jews as a persecuted ethnic group, ignores or distorts their history, and employs classic anti-Semitic tropes. Tinkering with a system that produced this curriculum is clearly insufficient. The process for producing curricula must clearly be revamped, and very robust safeguards must be adopted. Respectfully,
Dana Gilbert Edelstein

