From: Lisa Solomon Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 7:13 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Tony Thurmond ; JIAC Subject: Urgent request to make revisions to ESMC to be inclusive and balanced
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am highly concerned about the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum and request that you revise the curriculum to be more inclusive and balanced in how you describe ethnic groups.
As an educator, author, and parent, I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make sure that you are looking at the content with a holistic and comprehensive lens. The current proposed curriculum does not include a balanced view of the American Jewish experience, and completely omits any reference to the evidence of Antisemitism in this country, which now accounts for nearly half of the religious hate crimes committed in this country, according to the FBI. The curriculum positively endorses the BDS movement, which has contributed to divisive and unsafe learning environments across the country.
My children have often been in learning environments where they are the only Jewish students. There have been many difficult moments for them, and for us as a Jewish family, when school policy conflicts or ostracizes them for their religion. We do not need any additional curriculum, or negative sentiments against our Jewish experience, that might exasperate difference in what should be a safe and inclusive learning environment. Not addressing this important oversight is both inconsistent and antithetical to your
rationale for promoting this new curricula: "California is committed to providing excellent educational opportunities to all students. Research shows that culturally meaningful and relevant curriculum can have a positive impact on students."
I urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others, to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Lisa Kay Solomon

