August 13, 2019
To Whom It May Concern:
We are writing on behalf of the West Hollywood Israel Coalition, a strong community coalition of many organizations and individuals. We strongly and vehemently oppose this new ethic studies curriculum. It is clearly highly biased. It is anti-Israel and antiSemitic.
The language used to delegitimize Israel is shocking. The pro BDS language is outrageous as it is a movement dedicated to the destruction of Israelis and the state of Israel. The language of BDS is used to taunt Jews on college campuses throughout our state. The curriculum gives a flagrantly and irresponsibly inaccurate definition of BDS, blaming Israel for a grossly disproportionate amount of wrongdoing, and does not explain the history or context of the broader, two-way, Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
This curriculum is offensive as it omits any mention of Jewish ethnicity or discussion of anti-Semitism alongside other racism and homophobia issues. When anti-Semitism is a growing cancer in America, when we have evidence of it with murder in synagogues, including here in California, it is morally reprehensible to exclude teaching about AntiSemitism from this ethnic studies curriculum.
Let's ask students to learn about the diverse people of California and their proud histories. Let's learn how to combat racism homophobia misogyny and anti-Semitism, and classism. But this curriculum is not up to the task. It is meant to be inflammatory and one sided and this should be shelved.
The West Hollywood Israel Coalition
Organizational Members: Congregation Kol Ami Iranian Jewish Federation Israel Civic Action Network The Israel Group JQ A Wider Bridge Individuals: Susan Azizzadeh, President Iranian Jewish Federation Rabbi Max Chaiken, Asst. Rabbi, Congregation Kol Ami Rabbi Denise L. Eger, Founding Rabbi Congregation Kol Ami Asher Gellis, Exec. Director, JQ; Tyler Gregory, Exec. Director, A Wider Bridge Dillion Hosier Chief Advocacy Officer ICAN B. Daniel Blatt Lisa Glaser

Vera Markowitz Evelyn Markus, Ph.D. Bruce Maxwell, past chair of A Wider Bridge Neptune Mizrahi Zohreh Mizrahi Esq., Iranian Jewish Federation Pablo Nankin MD Bruce Phillips, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology and Jewish Communal Service- Hebrew Union College and the University of Southern California; Andrew Reback Esq, Board member Congregation Kol Ami/City of West Hollywood Human Services Commissioner Frank Hernandez Reback Susanne Reyto Diane Saltzberg; Jack Saltzberg, President and Founder The Israel Group Ariel Sobel, journalist Daryl Temkin Dr. Yaffa Weisman Ph. D, Librarian Emeritus Hebrew Union College; Neal Zaslavsky Esq. Rosa Zeegers
Shalom, Rabbi Denise L. Eger, D.D.

