From: Dr Shapero Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 9:47 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Regarding ESMC
Dear Chairwoman Chao;
I write to share my concern over the current version of the state's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). I urge the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) to make substantial revisions to the curriculum to ensure it meets the goals of the ESMC's authorizing statute AB 2016 (Chapter 327 of the Statutes of 2016) to "prepar[e] pupils to be global citizens with an appreciation for the contributions of multiple cultures."
I was shocked by the proposed ESMC's manifest indifference, and even hostility, to the American Jewish experience and community. The curriculum erases American Jewish history by failing to include Jews in a meaningful way, and it neglects any discussion of anti-Semitism. Further, it incorporates harmful antiJewish stereotypes in its completely inappropriate and biased criticism of Israel in a curriculum intended to focus on American ethnic groups.
A few of my specific concerns with the curriculum include:  The exclusion of Jews from ethnic groups mentioned.  Anti-Semitism has been excluded from hate crimes/discrimination even though half of religiousbased hate crimes in the United States are against Jews.  It is also shocking to me that the divisive BDS movement, which seeks to erase the state of Israel, is included with no balancing perspective.  In addition a song with language that suggests Jews control the media is included.
California's high school students will benefit from a pedagogically sound course in Ethnic Studies. As AB 2016 states, "the state's educational standards should be guided by core values of equity, inclusiveness, and universally high expectations." We ask that you implement all necessary revisions to meet this standard by including Jewish culture and history, teaching about anti-Semitism, and avoiding irrelevant and inflammatory polemics relating to Israel.
Sincerely in Health,
Dr. Shapero, D.C.
Dr.Bradley Shapero Premier Health Care - A rapidly expanding state of the art health care facility helping to create a drug free saner world through the delivery of the most advanced health care system on the planet - CHIROPRACTIC EXPECT MIRACLES - WE DO

San Clemente, California

