August 22, 2019
California Department of Education Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum AB 2016
Dear Sir or Madam:
I received a copy of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum from the California Department of Education website. Normally I would not take the time to respond to a posting such as the one on your website but the content of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is so biased and one sided that it requires a response.
Quite honestly, the individuals who propounded this Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum did so in a manner in which is not designed or calculated to present a full spectrum of ethnic issues. Notably missing (and probably intentionally) is any reference to anti-Semitism or the holocaust. In its place is a section concerning BDS and in fact, the only term contained in the Glossary under the letter B is reference to BDS.
I understand the need to discuss BDS in the context of ethnic studies, but so too must issues of anti-Semitism be discussed along with issues of Islamaphobia. Issues regarding ethnic bias must include both of those topics. I cannot understand any ethnic models curriculum not including such relevant issues as white supremacy, ethnic cleansing, Islamaphobia and antisemitism. To delete one specific topic such as antisemitism really discredits the intended impartiality of the ethnic studies model curriculum. One has to ask why is antisemitism deleted?
You may take this letter as a urging for your committee to revise the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. While I understand that the curriculum is not required, and is only a guide, your committee has the responsibility to present a curriculum that is fair on its face. Any educated and responsible person reading the curriculum would immediately note the fact that this curriculum, as propounded, is neither fair nor unbiased. /// /// /// /// California Department of Education Page Two

August 14, 2019

I urge you to take the steps to prepare a Model Curriculum that honestly reflects the majority of ethnic issues relevant to our times.
Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter.

ESA/gk

Sincerely yours,
Eugene S. Alkana

