From: Michael Halperin Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 11:05 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Curriculum
As a university professor at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles I taught courses in ethnic studies. Fostering understanding and the contribution of our diverse population to democracy is critical. Unfortunately the draft submitted for public comment veers off track in a number of instances:
1. Language: Using expressions such as "Herstory/Hxrstory" as a substitute for history sends a misleading message. History has no relationship to gender. Its Greek root is "historia" meaning information, inquiry. History is neither His Story nor Her Story. To equate it with the masculine tense represents the political bastardization of language.
2. Gender Equality: The curriculum must ensure that gender does not intrude on legal or statutory documents. Therefore it should emphasize not poor English, but careful use of language that precludes indication of gender specificity.
3. Ethnicity: Care must be taken to recognize that either the curriculum deals with ethnic groups or is concerned with all minorities and minority religions. For example: it discusses Islamophobia but does not include Judeophobia; it highlights the BDS movement, a political weapon often used as a substitute for Antisemitism, without context and with no relationship to ethnic studies.
4. Lack of diversity: Sub-groups within every ethnic group must be recognized. Arabs are Moslem, Christian, white, black, brown, often coming from diverse parts of the world each with its unique culture. African Americans are Moslem, Christian, Jewish.
5. Emphasis: Minorities have suffered discrimination that continues into the 21st century. The curriculum should also emphasize that America is a nation of immigrants many of whom have provided incredible benefit to the sciences, art, literature, philosophy, education, etc.
6. Genetic Research: Paleogenetics (Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History) has determined we are all African, Middle-Eastern, and from the steppes of Siberia with a kinship to Native Americans.
Please acknowledge receipt of this e-mail.
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Halperin, Ph.D.

