From: Danit Makover Sent: Tuesday, August 13, 2019 6:05 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: kmcdonal; selafishbein Subject: The new suggested curriculum for Ethnic Studies in CA
As a former educator in the State of California, an avid reader of history, and concerned citizen of this great Country, I am appalled at this biased, non-fact based suggested curriculum.
There are many areas with problems. A huge one being the complete lack of mention of the Jewish minority group that has contributed to the democracy of the United States in all fields, far outweighing the sheer size of this group. The largest percentage of Caucasians by size, involved in the Civil Rights Movement were in fact Jewish. The largest number of Rabbis in the history of the US ever to be arrested were marching with Martin Luther King. Perhaps because the contributions of the Jewish people are known in so many areas (medicine, Noble Prize winners, song writers, inventors, etc.), they are not perceived as a minority group.
Completely avoiding any of the history of the Land of Israel from the late 1800s until the present date and its impact on our country and the world is ludicrous. Even Marc Twain, perhaps our greatest writer, stated that the land was empty and desolate when he visited. Small numbers of Jewish immigrants moved into the land from the late 1800s on. They began clearing out swamps and making formerly unusable land into areas for agriculture. The vast majority of the Arab settlers from the other Arab nations moved into Israel for work during that same time period (late 1800s into early 1900s). In 1948, after the horrors of the Holocaust, when the United Nations voted for the establishment of a formal Jewish State, the surrounding Arab nations called upon the Arab people living within the new borders to leave, as they were starting a war against the Jewish nation in which the land would become free of Jews. Somewhere between 450,000 and 500,000 Arab people left willingly, waiting until the war was over so they could come and take possession of all of the land. At the same time, and over the next few years, about 480,000 people of Jewish decent were systematically abused and driven out of the Arab countries where many had been living for generations.
The numbers of displaced people were fairly equal. One group left willingly, the Arab families, the others were kicked out. The 480,000 Jewish refugees were absorbed into the fledgling nation. The vast majority of the Arab people were blocked from absorption into the Arab lands, despite the huge size of all of these countries.
To be using the opinions of known Anti-semites and present curriculum in which children are encouraged to sing pro-Palestinian songs, with no attempt at non-bias is appalling as an educational tool. If we are to have peace in the world and in our great country, we must teach children tolerance and acceptance of all of the minorities. Politics do not belong here. Anything presented will be accepted as "fact". Our youth

and future rulers of this country will be misinformed. The political bias of this curriculum is all too clear. This is NOT education.
A new curriculum needs to be drawn up that is neutral and un-biased. One in which the Jewish ethnic minority are represented, one that incites no hatred. Respected Jewish educational resources should be utilized and people should be on the committee that comes up with this new plan. There are plenty of resources available and the revision does not have to take up large amounts of time. Expediency, and the need for a multiethnic perspective should not be used as an argument for accepting it as is.
Looking forward to hearing of the equitable changes.
Sincerely,
Danit D. Makover, M.A.

