Committees:
Chair Personnel & Animal Welfare
Vice Chair Energy, Climate Change & Environmental Justice Ad Hoc Committee on Police Reform
Member Budget and Finance Transp1)rt.at'ion
August 6, 2019
Ms. Karen Stapf Walters Executive Director California State Board of Education 1430 N Street, Room 5111 Sacramento, CA 95814

PAUL KORETZ
Councilmember, Fifth District

Dear Ms. Stapf Walters:

It has come to my attention that the California Department of Education is currently reviewing a model Ethic Studies curriculum, a portion of which openly promotes hateful boycotts against Israel and omits anti-Semitism as a fonn of bigotry.
Israel has been the target for biased and unwarranted harassment for the past decade in colleges and high schools. The ethnic studies model curriculum being proposed by the California Department of Education will only further the negative rhetoric being used in schools about the history and culture oflsrael that often focuses on questioning Israel's right to exist as a Jewish State, rather than its government's specific policies.
The biggest concern regarding the curriculum is the inclusion and promotion of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement. BDS advocates claim they are a social movement that aims to establish freedom for Palestinians living in apartheid conditions when, in reality, it only promotes hate and disdain towards Israel.
In my opinion, the California Department of Education is either showing an appalling level of incompetence and/or oversight with their lesson plans, or sheer bias and anti-Semetic sentiment. I tend to believe it is the latter, as this has been an issue for a decade and no action has been taken to address this bias.
Therefore, I respectfully request the removal of any discussion of the BDS movement and any other anti-Israel bias from the model curriculum. Furthermore, I urge the state to add lessons about American Jews as an ethnic group, including those who fled the Holocaust, oppression in the Middle east, and discrimination in the former Soviet Union.

Councilmember, 5th District
cc: Governor Gavin Newsom
Proudly serving the communities of Bel Air, Bel Air Olen, Benedict Canyon. Beverly Crest, Beverly Glen, Beverly Grove, Beverlywood, California Country Club, Carthay Circle, Carthay Square, Castle Heights, Century City, Cheviot Hills, Comstock Hills, Crestview, Encino, Encino Village, Fairfax, Hollywood,
Holmby Hills, Holmby Westwood, Melrose, Miracle Mile, Overland Avenue Community, Palms, Pico-Robertson, Roscomare, Roxhury-Beverwil, Royal Woods, South Carthay, Tract 7260, West of Westwood, Westside Village, Westwood, Westwood Gardens, Westwood Hills, Westwood South of Santa Monica.

