I am writing to let you know my views. I was born and raised in California. Both of my parents were conservative Democrats and I was a liberal Democrat, until the Democrat Party changed. I'm thinking about moving to a different state, but I feel like California is my home. After reviewing the Ethnic Studies plan I'm disappointed. My family has bi-racial marriages, homosexuals and transgender. We all love and treat every one the same. No one feels different or excluded. No one really talks about it, we just have normal conversations. We are all the same. We are all truly equal.
I am fine with the idea of ethnic studies but the way this is presented it is racist. I like learning about what other people have persevered through. To walk a mile in others shoes. It brings out compassion and unity. It is what makes America strong. BUT you don't include "white people". You present it as ALL white people are privileged and white supremist!! First of all, not ALL white people are privileged! And I'm angry at being told I'm racist. I'm not!!!
I think your study plan will not bring people together but cause further division. As I read it I felt like it will divide student. It is racist against white people. If you truly want to stop racism EVERYONE must be treated equal!!
I don't like how the student will have to give an oral report and be corrected by the teacher and judged by their peers. This is peer pressure and radicalization. And the step forward and step back game is a terrible way to treat children. The children in the back will feel bad about themselves like they are a victim, have had a bad life and don't measure up and the children in the front will feel bad like they are privileged and the other children may not like them. YOU will be causing a divide. Children need to be taught they are all the same no matter what their circumstance may be. We can't control what family we are born into. I know people born into money etc. and their life goes badly. I know people that have had a horrible childhood but became stronger for it and have risen above it. In my family there are some with a lot of money and those with no money. AND believe it or not it isn't because they are male or female, gay or transgender, black white or Latino. You are wrong.
Public schools are funded by all taxpayers. So you need to represent all political views or (like when was growing up) don't voice your opinion, stay neutral and just inform. You are there to teach children how to read, write, do math etc. to prepare them for the world. They all need a chance to be successful and hopefully have a fulfilling and happy life no matter their circumstances. You should not teach any specific political agenda. You should represent all political views. What if a child's parent doesn't agree with you liberal views? They have that right! What will it do to the child? If the child does not conform to your bias ideology will they get a lower grade? That child will be torn between their teacher & peers and their parents views. That poor child. You have NO RIGHT to raise that child!!
It is obvious that you have extreme liberal Democrat views. I think you portray racism against white people. I feel like this is the radicalization of children exactly like Hitler. My great grandfather was an immigrant. He had to have a sponsor to get here. After living here and working hard he was able the bring over his wife and children. My grandmother came here when she was 5 years old. I come from a very large diverse family. I believe in recycling, saving the earth, equality and unity etc. I think you are going too far. You are pushing me away. I have lost

my faith in public schools. I am 100% against the "Health" plan. The sexualization of children. Stop!!! Leave the children alone. You have NO RIGHT to talk about sex with children, under the age of 18. Teaching them about oral and anal sex! What is wrong with you! I believe some children will be traumatized. Feels like an open door for perverts. Again it is up to the parents to decide when and what to teach THEIR children. Please protect these little innocent children. They aren't ready for sex. Let them be children. It is not your job to force your sexual beliefs on them.
Stop forcing your point of view and your political agenda on our children! Everyone does not have your same opinion. If you don't, I think parents should pull there children out so you'll stop getting their money.
Sincerely, Deborah Blair

