From: Susan Weintrob Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 5:07 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Re proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Fellow Educators:
As a retired educator, I am always interested in new and proposed curriculum. I therefore read about California's proposed public school Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. As I read the proposal information on the California government website and read articles about this curriculum, I found the proposal to be anti-Semitic, politically onesided and show hate mongers as role models for students. Some examples are:
1. While Arab Americans are given a place among US minority group, Jewish Americans are conspicuously absent. Even the California Legislative Jewish Caucus has denounced the proposal's "anti-Jewish bias," saying it would "institutionalize the teaching of anti-Semitic stereotypes in our public schools," according to an article in the Washington Times (Richardson, 8-11-19) 2. While the curriculum discusses numerous prejudices, there isn't a word about hatred of Jews and erased the American Jewish experience. 3. The program promotes the anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement and its supporters, including Palestinian-American activist Linda Sarsour. Its libelous language includes a definition in the draft's glossary that defines BDS as a "global social movement that currently aims to establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions." The curriculum singles out Israel for condemnation. 4. The curriculum is one-sided in its anti-capitalism, called "a form of power and oppression" and in its anti-police bent, touting cop killers as worthy of study because of their actions. 5. This public school curriculum appears to try to institutionalize anti-Semitism, anti-capitalism, anti-police and anti-conservatism. Much of the information presented is devoid of fact and appears to want to propagandize future students. How ironic that a program proposing to bring our citizens together with information about the contribution of minorities in fact does the opposite, by marginalizing the Jewish people. I urge you to condemn this proposed curriculum and make sure that this type of educational program doesn't enter our school system. Thank you. Susan Weintrob

