From: Brian Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 8:53 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Lisa Samuels; Joel Berick Subject: URGENT ACTION NEEDED: Stop Anti-Israel Hate in California Public Schools
URGENT ACTION NEEDED: Stop Anti-Israel Hate in California Public Schools
I just recently learned that The State of California is currently reviewing a model curriculum called Ethnic Studies in which surprisingly and disappointingly openly promotes hateful boycotts against Israel and omits antisemitism as a form of bigotry. Disturbingly, this agenda was inserted into an educational effort meant to teach students about marginalized communities. Moreover, despite its stated purpose, the proposed curriculum includes no lessons about Jews as a sizeable ethnic minority and frequent target of racism. After all Anti-Semitism is one of the oldest forms of hate and yet still a major problem today despite all the major accomplishments that this culture has given to the entire world. How can the Ethnic Studies Curriculum possibly exclude this? I find the intentions of the planned curriculum highly suspicious and as a parent raising three children I strongly object.
The Ethnic Studies Curriculum emphasizes a value of inclusion and the BDS promotes hate and division. Exactly the opposite of what we wish our children to learn. The fact is, Judaism teaches tolerance... If not for Judaism our Judeo Christian country would not exist. Therefore the BDS is not only an attack on the religion but should be seen as an attack on America.
A glossary for the curriculum includes a definition of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to, "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions". It then parrots more BDS talking points while offering no critical perspectives about this campaign of hate, which seeks to end Israel's existence.
URGENT ACTION NEEDED: Stop Anti-Israel Hate in California Public Schools.
I am absolutely sickened of all the false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico. Any comparison is just pure ignorance.
Language that implies "Israel-Palestine" as a whole is an Arab country couldn't be more confusing
The Ethnic Studies Curriculum fails to show any alternative other than the Palestinian narrative of the 1948 War as fact. Encouraging teachers to use an anti-Israel poem which insinuates Jews control the media and use it to manipulate the public - is a common antisemitic slur and only encourages hate.
With antisemitism on the rise the Ethnic Studies Curriculum appears to be aimed to only further teach ignorance about the Jewish people being a major problem in our society, the exclusion of Jews from this curriculum is deeply disappointing.
The Ethnic Studies Curriculum is non American and shouldn't be thought at all.
Brian E. Samuels

