From: Kathy Jordan Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 11:10 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: public comment ethnic studies curriculum
Regarding the Ethnic Studies curriculum ---
I write to object to any characterization of capitalism as 'racist' and as a 'form of power and oppression.' Some may hold that view, and this viewpoint could be legitimately presented as their view, while similarly, it could and should be presented that others hold a very different view, that capitalism is actually color blind and race blind, and is a political and economic system that has created vast wealth and raised the standard of living for disparate groups of people and ethnicities. Evidence should be presented for each and every view, rather than simply presenting views to accord with any predetermined politically correct belief system.
In the draft ethnic studies curriculum, capitalism is apparently described as a "form of power and oppression," alongside "patriarchy," "racism," "white supremacy" and "ableism." Capitalism and capitalists appear as villains several times in the document. Please strike all of these erroneous and politically divisive references.
If racism and white supremacy was embedded in capitalism itself, then how to explain the financial success in the capitalist system of so many discriminated groups and individuals, such as Jews, Irish Catholics, Armenians, Italian American, Asians, Latinos and African Americans, and also women, and so on? White supremacists don't seem particularly sympathetic to Jews, women, Catholics, Asians, Latinos, African Americans and so forth. Why weren't all of these discriminated groups then fully oppressed by the 'power' and the 'racist white supremacists?' How did they slip through the cracks? Weren't an Irish Catholic and an African American both elected President of the United States at one time? Haven't women achieved some measure of financial independence as well?
Perhaps it is pernicious racism and sexism that exists, although not inherent in capitalism.
What about racism and organized labor? Will an explanation of that be included in the ethnic studies curriculum? Will the role of organized labor as the prime mover behind the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act, to stem wage competition, be included? And will the resistance in labor unions toward those of color becoming members also be included? Will organized labor also then be characterized as inherently 'racist' and a 'form of power and oppression,' and as 'white supremacist,' given its actual, documented history of racism against a number of ethnic groups?

So by the same token if capitalism is to be so characterized, then shouldn't organized labor also be characterized as inherently 'racist' and 'white supremacist' and so forth due to its actual history of racism? Will the factual history about racism and organized labor also be included?
Please produce an even handed, neutral curriculum.
Thank you,
Best,
Kathy Jordan

