Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I am concerned by the proposed unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I support the idea of teaching an ethnic studies class, but urge you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
I benefitted from a California public education, in a highly diverse public school system and it would be a tragedy to see the tolerance that this school system promotes disintegrate under curriculum changes that promote bias.
Though the curriculum should certainly devote time to Islamophobia, it is incredibly unbalanced to have no mention of anti-Semitism: anti-Semitism is unfortunately not an issue solely of the past, nor a minor issue. Three times as many hate crimes in America currently are actually against Jews as against Muslims - the most recent FBI statistics record 938 antisemitic incidents and 273 Islamophobic incidents. Hate crimes against Jews rose by 37% according to 2018 FBI statistics -- now composing over half of all religious-based hate crimes in the United States. This is important factual information and accurate teaching of current events and recent history to provide students so they are prepared to address the issues that exist in their society - not to be ignored.
Even terms used in the curriculum are, in current form, unbalanced. For example, the United States would take great issue with our war of independence from Britain being solely referred to as "the catastrophe" without any background on the efforts for independence, as the 1948 Arab-Israeli War is referred to as of now.
I ask you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns so that all can feel confident sending their children to public schools in California that teach accurate representations of our world to the best of their ability.
Thank you, AG Cairo

