From: Ponce, Alejandra Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 11:04 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: My love for Ethnic Studies
Hello, my name is Alejandra Ponce and I am now a senior at Santa Ana High School. I took Ethnic Studies during my sophomore year and am currently taking it again. I couldn't get enough of it, it has helped me more than any other class throughout my educational career has. Being a Chicana in this time period is not easy and for as long as I can remember I always knew that because I was not white I would not be treated the same. Because of that realization at such a young age, I hated my culture. I hated being a brown girl with curly hair. No one in pop culture looked like me. There was no representation of my people in my class curriculums. It wasn't until I took ethnic studies where I finally felt like I could be a somebody. I learned about all the leaders and scholars who were left out of our textbooks just because they were minorities. I learned about the oppressive history our country has on people who are seen as different. More students need to take Ethnic Studies because it opens their eyes to what the world actually is. The system is set up to keep us down but if we become educated, we will not only become better students but better people and the world needs more of that. Thank you for taking the time for reading my story. I am not the only one who has these realizations. I am just one of the ones who have the privilege of taking this course.
Santa Ana Unified School District E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail communication and any attachments, including documents, files, or previous e-mail messages, constitute electronic communications within the scope of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 USCA 2510 et al. This e-mail communication may contain non-public, confidential or legally privileged information intended for the sole use of the designated recipient(s). The unauthorized and intentional interception, use, copy or disclosure of such information, or attempt to do so, is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful under applicable laws. If you have received this e-mail communication in error, please immediately notify the sender by return e-mail and delete the original email from your system.

