Dear Ethnic Studies Panel:
I am a Jewish American. My parents came to this country in the early and mid 1920's. They escaped pogroms targeting Jews in eastern Europe. The only hope they had was refuge in the land called America. Millions of Jews came to this country until immigration was halted to a trickle in 1927. My dad's parents were never able to come to the US because of restrictive laws and quotas placed on certain ethnic minorities at that time. The result was the wholesale slaughter of the entire Jewish population of their village (among many more numerous to elucidate) in eastern Ukraine in 1941-2 at the hands of the Nazi invaders. Chain migration brought my mother and her family to NY in 1921 and my dad in 1926. This a small incident in the history of immigration to the US, but a valid one. As an educator and a student of history, evidence of existing events need to be presented so the student can discern what is valid and important. It was your job to raise an issue and point to resources to verify or refute the facts presented. It is true history is often told by the victor, rarely retold by the vanquished. My understanding of what you are presenting is the victim's viewpoint because so much has not been told regarding their sad stories. Yet you have neglected to include Jews, who , by the way, have never been considered as being "white" in the world's panoramic view of Ethnicity.
The Holocaust was the chief catalyst in the creation of The State of Israel. Jews are related to Arabs and other tribes of people. Coupled with the mixing of the races there are many, many people of color who are still today Jewish. More than 10,000 Ethiopian Falashas exist today, and this is only a small part of Jewish History of persecution and oppression. Recall that both Jews and native royalty Africans benefited from the slave trade to the new world. These are the kind of things that must be part of any discussion of ethnic studies. The story of Palestine is very complicated and dates back to Ancient Rome, up to the beginning of the Ottoman Empire, which ruled the middle east for 3 centuries.
I am asking you to examine your vision of what you want students to glean from your work. Present topics and credible works and documents that will allow students to think and discuss and formulate their own conclusions. BDS is designed to wipe Israel off the map of existence. Read the statement carefully and you will see why decent people oppose this boycott.
Respectfully, Franklin D Fox, PhD Retired Early Childhood educator and Retired State of CA

