The California Department of Education general mailbox received the following general comments.
I strongly object to this action-The California Department of Education and the Instructional Quality Commission are considering a revision to its public school curriculumn that openly promotes hateful boycotts against Israel (presenting a one-sided view of the Boycott, Divest and Sanction movement) and omits anti-Semitism as a form of bigotry. Moreover, despite its stated purpose, the proposed curriculum includes no lessons about Jews as a sizeable ethnic minority and frequent target of racism. )
A revision of this inaccurate and hate promoting revision must be made. Thank you for helping to ensure the teaching of tolerance in our California schools.
It is totally irresponsible to use our public funded education for propaganda. Capitalism is not racist. How dare you
Do not teach lies about Capitalism being racist, immoral, etc.
The section in the handbook addressing capitalism has no proven basis in fact and needs a strong revision to be acceptable. I strongly oppose the current form.
I am a hard working father of a child who is about to begin his school career. I am deeply concerned about this possibility of the new curriculum which will paint capitalism as "racist"? I for one, will not allow my child to attend ANY SCHOOLS, that teach blatant socialism to my child. It's is absolute nonsense, and I won't tolerate it. I will simple use a charter school that doesn't teach such divisive hate fueling ideas. It's my understanding, that you were looking for public feedback? THIS is mine. I was looking for one last reason to take my tax dollars to a different state. One which doesn't have schools that rank 43rd, which I can't even use if I would like my child to have any chance for a good education. This is propagandizing of our public schools. I honestly can't believe I even have to write this email to begin with. Yet here we are. This is detrimental, hateful, groupthink, that causes people to distrust and blame one another for any number of problems! Stop this craziness now, before we cause even more division.
Your Ethnic Studies model makes no sense. I vote NO..teaching that capitalism is a curse on society minimizes the history of our country. Without capitalistic pioneers we would not have the successes that we enjoy. Vote No. if passed there will be an uptick in home schooling plus an increase in private school enrollment
Urge the REJECTION of proposed "Ethnic Studies" cirriculum for public schools. This cirriculum promotes a political agenda of "victimization" and has no place in our education system. It will not be of any benefit. Calling capitalism "racist" flies in the face of obvious contridictions in societies like that in Cuba.
I am dissappointed that the State Board would even consider such a cirriculum. I am a graduate of the public school system in San Francisco, and never was exposed to this type of propaganda nor should any child today.be fed such.
Thank you in advance for consideration of my comments.
I am lodging a complaint about the proposed history curriculum for grades K-12 that teaches that capitalism is an oppressive ideology that is equivalent to white supremacy, racism and patriarchal oppression.
This type of blatant, or subliminal Marxist-based education has NO place in CA or in the U.S. The ENTIRE curriculum should be discarded.
I just read the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. It basically gives Students of Color permission to bully White and Jewish Students. This document would lead students to believe that no White or Jewish person has ever done anything decent. If the objective was to raise the White and Jewish Students suicide rate, the document is a success. If the objective is to bring people together as United States residents, it fails completely.
I am seriously concerned about the new far left ethnic studies curriculum that is scheduled to be taught in our schools. This is a disservice to students and an unnecessary use of taxpayer dollars. You will cause these students a lifetime of feeling hatred and resentment over issues that happened years ago. To teach that Capitalism is racist is far beyond the truth and nothing short of the leftist propaganda. Capitalism provided our greatest advancements in America and should be taught to educate students that Capitalism is part of the American Dream. You should also provide a program to educate about heritage, patriotism, veterans, tolerance and our freedoms. Included in that program should also be unbiased information on how everyone should understand both sides of events and to make intelligent decisions on your own with facts and evidence to support your decision. This far left ethnic studies program will only fuel more hatred, division, and violence that will tear this country apart more so than what it is today. Be the champions, the leaders, the sensible, unbiased group of California employees that this state can be proud of and put

forth programs that are truthful, factual, fair, unbiased, and that engages in real life events. Stop the racism, hatred, lies, socialistic ideas, and let's teach our students how to be more productive and tolerant adults. I thank you for listening and letting us share our viewpoints with you
Having reviewed the proposed ethnic studies program that California is contemplating I am deeply disturbed by the obvious political and racial bias it presents. As a Fulbright fellow (Montenegro, '12-'13), history, foreign relations and foreign languages teacher with experience in both public and private school settings at the middle school, high school and community college level I can attest that your curriculum guides have only the loosest connection with historical reality and are developed in a way that willfully develops racial and ethnic animosity. It is shameful that a state with so long and celebrated a past as California should willingly throw itself headfirst into such charged and damaging language. Fragmenting our country further and undermining the very philosophical, historical, and ideological foundations which have made the United States the ultimate hope for so many oppressed and downtrodden people will do no favors to us or those around the world who rely on the United States for support, encouragement and as provider of an example of success found through diversity and unity.
It has come to our attention that the Department of Education has embraced certain new and proposed curricula that are overtly political in nature and morbidly sexual in content.
It is an intellectual atrocity and the height of hypocrisy to teach tolerance of all while simultaneously teaching that those who disagree on political issues are morally deficient. Recent curricula items are discriminatory in a disgusting fashion as they contain references/stereotypes of Israel & Jewish people in general that are culturally and academically recognized as anti-Semitic. Along with the deliberate denigration of white Americans historically, this is a serious step backwards for our country.
It is both a widely recognized legal necessity, and common sense best practice among professionals, that sexuality and children do not mix. How the individuals in this educational endeavor seem to think themselves an exception to this rule is a mystery to me.
As a parent, Fulbright Fellow and recognized Master Teacher at one of the top boarding schools in the US and the world, I agree with so many of our parents that exposing children to the sexually explicit topics, such as are showcased in your scaffolding, is itself tantamount to child sexual abuse with all the trauma and confusion endemic to that unfortunate population. As a thinking individual I cannot help but wonder at the motivation of teaching something which by your own reasoning is instinctual, inborn and natural.

