August 13, 2019
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair, Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear Chairwoman Chao and Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
Equality California would like to express deep concerns about the current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). It has come to our attention that the proposed model contains inaccuracies, misrepresentations, and omissions that would counteract its intended purpose of promoting inclusion and alleviating prejudice.
For 20 years, Equality California has led the Golden State's fight for full LGBTQ equality. We bring the voices of LGBTQ people and allies to institutions of power in California and across the United States, striving to create a world that is healthy, just, and fully equal for all LGBTQ people. We advance civil rights and social justice by inspiring, advocating, and mobilizing through an inclusive movement that works tirelessly on behalf of those we serve.
One of Equality California's main priorities is ensuring that LGBTQ young people grow up in safe and supportive learning environments, in part by advocating for inclusive school curriculums. We fear that the current draft of the ESMC excludes much of the American-Jewish experience, ignores anti-Semitism, and perpetuates anti-Semitic stereotypes. We cannot support a curriculum that fails to address a community that has been, and continues to be, marginalized, underrepresented, and attacked. Instead of teaching students the rich and complex history of California, this curriculum will exclude the achievements and resilience of the Jewish community.
We recognize the critical value of ethnic studies and hope to work with the Instructional Quality Commission and our allies to shape a curriculum that is fair, accurate, inclusive, and respectful of all people, including historically marginalized groups. The ESMC, as proposed, does not encompass these values. For these reasons, we strongly urge you review, and make serious adjustments to, the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
Sincerely,
Rick Zbur Executive Director Equality California
CC: The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction Jamie Callahan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Governor Karen Stapf Walters, Executive Director of the California State Board of Education Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Education Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Director, Instructional Quality Commission, and Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Performance, Planning & Technology Branch Sarah Neville-Morgan, Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Teaching & Learning Support Branch

Board of Directors
Joseph Gregorich President
Scott Malzahn Vice President
Cecilia Cabello Secretary
Drew Murphy Treasurer
Susan McCabe Governance Chair
Jerry Bloom PAC Chair
Jason Anderson Carl Baker
Susan Burnside Juan Camacho Andrea Casalett
Jason Chan Andrea Cubitt Jason Daniels
Rob Darby Sue Dunlap Jeff Freitas Laurie Hasencamp Boe Hayward Dolores Huerta Sara Jacobs Leslie Katz Mandy Lee Jeren Miles Stuart Milk C. Scott Miller Doug Moreland Rich Poppen Alex Randolph Chris Robert Ernie Schmider Yale Scott Nancy Sutley John Tedstrom David J. Tsai Hillary Whittington Hon. James Williamson
Equality California 3701 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 725
Los Angeles, CA 90010

EQCA.ORG

