From: Fran Zimmermann Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 6:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum
The proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum is deeply flawed and biased. As a retired Teacher Librarian who worked with many teachers, especially in Social Studies, on projects that related to treatment of minority groups within the historical context, I can attest to the difficulty of presenting such material to students. Before even addressing the issues of content, I would like to know who would be teaching this curriculum? How would these teachers be selected? How would you vet such teachers for their own prejudices and biases? Under what department/grade level would you implement such a curriculum? And if this is to be a class separate from the existing program, where and how would you slot it in? What courses would be cut? Is this a mandated course? What kind of rubrics would be included to cover content and mastery of the subject?
It saddens me to realize that the State Department of Education is focusing on an Ethnic Studies class when what students really need are more practical classes in order to help them find useful and meaningful work. Not every students wants to go to college/university or is intellectually capable to do so. What ever happened to the "practical" classes that helped prepare students for work. Students need to learn how to balance a checkbook, whether electronically or on paper; how to read a lease agreement; understand how to purchase a car; how to budget; manage credit cards. Ethnic studies will not decrease prejudices in our students. Only interaction between people of different cultures will do that. Yet again, instead of focusing on what will be meaningful/useful to students as they embark on their adult lives, the focus is on a subject that will few if any qualified teachers to teach it and provide little no historical context within which to address the issues.
This curriculum does not need revision. It needs to be dumped.
Frances Zimmermann District Librarian, Burbank Unified School District, Retired Teacher Librarian, Los Angeles Unified School District, Retired

