From: Gary Hart Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 12:20 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Model Curriculum
Dear Commission Members: Recent prominent comments have rightly criticized the model curriculum document for failure to include anti-semitism in the curriculum and seemingly to have a pro-Palestinian point of view. And now other groups are lining up for inclusion as well (e.g. Greeks, Armenians, Koreans).
However, these comments fail to examine the document's handling of African-American, Latino and Asian-American materials already in the model curriculum. The focus of the current document is largely on resistance with little reference to coalition building among ethnic groups nor any reference to electoral politics, legal procedures, voting, etc. as worthwhile strategies to bring upon change and justice. Regarding the African-American segment the document:
1. Encourages coverage of perpetrators of violence (e.g. Franz Fanon, George Jackson, Mumia Abu-Jamal) but makes no reference to prominent California black political leaders (e.g. Ralph Bunche, Tom Bradley, Yvonne Braithwaite-Burke, Wilson Riles) who were committed to non-violence.
2. Highlights the Attica Prison Uprising but makes no reference to the NAACP, Thurgood Marshall, Bryan Stevenson and others who contributed mightily to civil rights through nonviolent legal strategies.
3. Mentions African-American spiritual traditions including The Nation of Islam and the Moorish Science Temple but makes no reference to the Baptist (Martin Luther King, Jr.) nor the Methodist (LA Bishops) faiths to which large numbers of African-Americans belong. These denominations have also worked closely with political leaders to strengthen civil rights legislation in California.
4. Fails to note California athletes who have played prominent roles in civil rights (e.g. Jackie Robinson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar), nor is there any mention of prominent California AfricanAmerican academics (Cornel West, Blenda Wilson, James Rosser).
5. There is little discussion of how oppressed ethnic groups have "worked together" with other groups which is one of the important State Board of Education guidelines for the development of the model curriculum.
The model curriculum is more of a indoctrination tract than a serious effort to discuss the rich array of contributions of ethnic groups to our state and nation's ethnic history/progress and it does not welcome/encourage political view points of view that differ from a far left point of view.
Rather than expand or revise the document it needs to be discarded and a new more inclusive effort needs to take place.
Gary K. Hart former State Senator (D-Santa Barbara)

