From: Kathy Marvin Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 3:11 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Change needed to proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curric
Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory team,
My name is Kathy Marvin and I am a California Teacher of the Year from 2010. I am writing to you to express my extreme displeasure for the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) as it is written and I urge you to make the changes listed below for the reasons explained. For clarification purposes, I fully support the views of State Board of Education President Linda Darling-Hammond, Vice President Ilene Straus and Board Member Feliza OrtizLicon who issued a statement regarding this proposed model curriculum and a need for substantial redesign on August 9. ".....A model curriculum should be accurate, free of bias, appropriate for all learners in our diverse state, and align with Governor Newsom's vision of a California for all. The current draft model curriculum falls short and needs to be substantially redesigned."
1. Add a glossary definition of anti-Semitism. This seems to be an obvious vocabulary word that should be available to high school teachers designing their own Ethnic Studies curriculum. I'm actually shocked that you would have proposed a model curriculum on Ethnic Studies and left out the very definition of the most persecuted group on our planet. In short, anti-Semitism means to have hostility or prejudice or discriminate against Jews. This clearly needs to be included in any Ethnic Studies glossary and unit.
2. Remove the definition for BDS. You have included the definition for BDS in your glossary which is so wrong and offensive. BDS is a highly controversial, violent group whose ultimate goal is the total destruction of Israel, a country admitted to the United Nations in 1949 and was named a "peace loving country". The model curriculum should be accurate and free of bias, yet your omission of anti-Semitism and the inclusion of BDS show clear bias which is highly offensive.
3. In the section on Arab American Studies Course Outline, in the Lesson Steps/Activities section, I take issue with the naming of Lebanon, Syria and Iraq yet you name Israel as Israel-Palestine. This is offensive and shows bias. Remove the dash and name Israel by itself. You make the same egregious mistake later in Materials and Resources in the section on The History of Arab Immigration to the United States. Again you name all the other countries and then, "Palestine/Israel". This is offensive, shows great bias and is inaccurate. Israel is NOT Israel-Palestine.
4. I object strongly to the Arabic Verse Rapped by Shadia Mansour. It includes hate language, anti-Semitism and is incredibly biased. "For every free political prisoner an Israeli colony is expanded For each greeting, a thousand houses were demolished They use the press so they can manufacture, but when my sentence is judged, reality presents itself." There are other verses in the framework but i don't see any that demonize free, peace-loving country. This is bias.

5. I also take offense to the Comparative Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico. The differences are wide and complicated and in no way comparative.
Respectfully Submitted, Kathy R. Marvin California Teacher of the Year, 2010 Irvine Unified School District

