From: Joy A Shmueli Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 3:17 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: JIAC@betham.org Subject: Concerns regarding the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) proposal
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education and Others This May Concern:
I am a credentialed teacher and administrator in the Bay Area, and the mother of a child who attends a public school in Foster City.
I am both disturbed and concerned by the incredibly unbalanced Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that has been proposed. I support the idea of teaching ethnic studies class, but it is crucial that you to make MAJOR revisions or a SIGNIFICANT rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, consistent with the recommendations from the California Legislative Jewish Caucus letter, Stand With Us, Jimena, Amcha and others.
I am a product of the California education system. And now, as I mentioned, I am a mother of a child who is in our system; I want him to have a very balanced curriculum, one that he feels fairly represented in--not one that makes him feel ashamed, and one that educates ALL students on events. We need to not divide our students, but practice the inclusivity and multicultural sensitivity that we preach as educators.
The state of California is home to approximately 236,000 Jews of Middle Eastern and North African descent (including my father and many of our friends). These refugees and immigrants arrived from Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Turkey, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Iraq and Iran. Notably, the Iranian Jewish community in Los Angeles comprises an estimated 60,000 individuals, making them one of the largest Middle Eastern diasporic communities in the United States. Despite the community's numbers, they have been completely omitted from the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
ESMC focuses heavily on power structures and forms of oppression including white supremacy, sexism, classism, Islamophobia, transphobia -- but excludes anti-Semitism. Anti-Jewish bias receives only a passing mention during a discussion of intersectionality in a proposed course on Pacific Islander studies. A 22-page glossary and bibliography has entries for Islamophobia and racism, but none for anti-Semitism. It is crucial that you to make major revisions or a significant rewrite of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you,
Joy Ann Shmueli, parent at Foster City Elementary School who will in not too many years will have a son in a California high school, as well as a public school administrator.

