From: Camille Brandt Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 1:01 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic studies curriculum
The proposed ethnic studies curriculum is not what our schools need. I am a mother of 6 children ages 11-22 years old. They have all gone through our public school system and some have entered our public universities.
The schools are always addressing bullying, differences in culture, and accepting students with disabilities. I am always impressed by the effort of teachers and staff at our schools who try to impart many good values in and outside of the classroom.
I have noticed based on conversations with my kids, that any kind of discussion in the classroom that introduces topics such as the ones in the ethnic studies curriculum, have a tendency to become political. Often times, young people reflect what they hear and experience at home. These ideas of ethnic studies need to be very carefully thought out so as not to create more tension and distrust among students who may share different views. The schools cannot possibly change or make better the thought process that students use to on such issues in such a short amount of time.
We need to use our precious educational resources to help promote students toward a future where they have skills that can be used once they graduate high school. Our students act out when they feel left behind academically and socially. Our schools need to provide kids with a purpose for higher learning. Why not introduce them to more vocational classes, more required reading on ethnic studies, learning the stock market and financial planning, and technology, to name a few. Help these young people find a career path and skills that they can use to earn a living. We can better use our resources to provide more teachers in the classroom and tutoring.
The schools main job is to prepare students for a future career. They have to become employable, tax paying citizens. An ethnic studies curriculum is bound to fail if it's enforced on a grand scale throughout the state. I believe many of the issues discussed in the curriculum are subjects that need to be addressed at home.
Thank you for considering my opinion.
Camille Brandt

