From: Terry Clark Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 11:58 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: The proposed ethnic studies.
I am so against this type of proposal. I think that this is nothing but a well laid out plan to indoctrinate our young people. There are many problems with this plan. Teaching anti Semetic is so wrong. Did we not learn from the Nazis that what they did was so evil no words can come close to explaining it. You are wanting to change everything in history to a fake one. An as far as BSD being thought at school or other aspects of sexual difference. I went to the area of words that you are using in proposal. Equating them to math terms. If they are confusing to a adult what do you think they will be to kids. I think the LGTB community is trying to confuse how many people are like them. I think it is they are trying to indoctrinate kids into thinking their way is the only way. Like be a heterosexual is bad and not included as being discriminated against it is supposedly correcting everyone else's way of living. I do not care what adults do themselves but I do believe it is wrong to tell kids BDSM in school to be safe and sane. They can discover this when they are older if that is what they want. It's not their way for all Americans. Teaching safe sex is one thing. But a stranger that is a teacher telling kids their options at such a young age is outrageous. We have a very one sided state in CA. But shouldn't we be equal and just being white in this state is becoming dangerous. The political party that is the left wants to indoctrinate as many young people to not see that their are more than their way of thinking. It's bad enough that bad teachers in CA have tenour and can't be fired for being bad teachers. I moved to CA and started high school here. Up till then I thought of school as a place to learn. My first English teacher stated she was nothing but a glorified babysitter. I hated school after that. I set a plan in motion to get the hell out as fast as I could. I graduated as a junior. I had learn most of the high school things out here in seventh and eigth grade in Nebraska. I saw kids that were being push thru grades out here that couldn't do the work. But even back then teachers didn't care one way or another if they got thru to you. In NE our grades were read to the whole class. Which these days would seem mean by some. But it made kids do better because no one wanted to look dumber than the other kids. Now adays this would be considered bulling. I was raised by a old saying "sticks and stones may brake my bones but words can never hurt me". We have not raised kids for the real world. It is messed up enough without all this supposed politically correct society being the problem that it had become. Kids need to deal with life and the fact not everyone is

going to be like you period. I feel sorry for the minority kids that don't feel like they fit in because of their race, size, religion, no pride of being a American. But I don't think anyone in high school anyone feels like they are understood. Even those that are hetorsexual don't always feel they fit in. Not everyone is in the popular crowd. They don't all have a ton of friends. So why not go back to actually teaching kids math, English and our real history. Also the truth about how things really were in the past. Quit trying to indoctrinate kids to not think for themselves and to learn and talk about things without it always having to be about equality. Since things have changed. It would also help if only one language was used in school and that would be English since this is America. Hopefully you can get a much better education in place than worries about who is going to cry about their feeling be hurt by the truth. So much of history is being destroyed to not upset people. This is something that they can learn from and not repeat. Which also brings up the fact that ever other race can have clubs for their ethnic back grounds except for whites. This too is not fair. I am not talking about white supremacists clubs by any means. But we can not celibate or pray like is allowed for others in schools. They also are trying to make being a republican a dirty word . Kids are allowed to protest against the Right side of our political parties even being allowed on campus. Instead they are being to violate our side without knowing anything besides the Democratic Socialist party members ideas. This needs correcting immediately. Also they fact that kids get to collage and need crying rooms or safe places is a very big indicator that they are not ready for college or real life. When I was in college they wouldn't have consider such things. Do your jobs and keep your politics out of the classrooms. Unless it is not biased bin anyway. People need to learn to discuss things without getting mad they might learn more.

