From: Keri Elliott Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 8:28 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Re: Ethnic studies curriculum
Assemblymember.Lackey@assembly.ca.gov
On Thu, Aug 15, 2019 at 8:09 PM Keri Elliott wrote: To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing as both a mother of a 2 year old and a 4 year old and as an educator, and I am extremely concerned about what I am reading about the new California Ethnic Studies Curriculum that is currently being debated. My concern is a result for the following reasons: 1. We live in the greatest, most prosperous, and most freedom loving nation on the planet. Our way of life is a direct result of capitalism and our love of hard work and freedom. No other country attracts the amount of immigrants our country attracts. Why is capitalism being taught as a form of oppression in these new proposed curriculum standards? It is because of freedom that we enjoy the quality of life that we do. Why isn't socialism receiving the scrutiny under these new standards. I challenge you to name one truly socialist county that people are flocking to by the millions. North Korea? Venezuela? Cuba? Russia? China? Can you name one? If we do not give capitalism the credit it deserves, then students will fail to see that hard work pays off, and that is the attitude that built America and it is what continues to attract millions from around the world to this day. 2. In a time when anti-semitism is on the rise all around the world, why on earth would we adopt a curriculum that has even the slightest hint of anti-semitism. Unfortunately, from what I can see, this new framework is dripping with vile anti-semitism. To teach that the BDS movement is one we should all stand behind is completely outrageous. Israel, like every other country, has a right to its sovereignty and it has a right to defend itself against forces that literally want to wipe them off the map. 3. The fact that someone like Assada Shakur, a cop killer who escaped prison and moved to Cuba of all places is regarded as an admirable person is both laughable and truly alarming. She is seriously on this list? Seriously? 4. This curriculum screams of left-wing bias. I do not want the act of getting an education to be a political experience for my two young children. I am very curious to know how many conservatives or right-leaning people were on the team who put this together. If you truly believe in diversity of thought and representing all Californians, then the answer to my question should be half. There is no way this is the case, because I can't find one conservative value or principal anywhere in the curriculum. Now, let me be clear, I am not advocating for a conservative based curriculum. What I would like is for California to not be last in Math and English scores throughout the country, which we sadly just about are. How about we teach kids how to think, not what to think? How about we teach them how to read, how to question, how to do higher level math? How about you stop making things political?
I speak for a lot of parents when I say we will not stand for this kind of indoctrination for our children. I will not be sending my children to a public school should this ridiculous overhaul of our educational standards pass. I am lucky enough to be able to do that. My heart breaks for the parents who have no choice but to continue to send their kids to broken schools where they do not graduate with the reading, writing, and thinking skills they need to be a successful adult.
Please reconsider this framework. Enough is enough.

