From: Martin Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 9:39 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Falling Short is a start
Good evening,
This is my second email regarding the proposed draft "curriculum." I will not be using your template, there is no need, this is a general comment that applies to the entire document.
I have read some recent articles that say the People of California have pushed back against your proposals; thank goodness! While I am relieved to hear officials say the curriculum "needs substantial redesigning" I am encouraging our fellow Californians to keep the pressure on this Board. It is deeply concerning this tripe could be proposed as a draft. It's sickening to think our government officials would think so lowly of it's fellow citizens as to subject us to this pseudo-intellectualism; and that is putting it kindly. This pure propaganda and anyone on that board who can think HONESTLY knows it.
The reasons your Board needs more accountability and oversight from the People are many. But perhaps most striking and infuriating example of why your Board needs more Public accountability is the statement YOU made, which was intended as acknowledgement for how far off-base you are, but instead it shows how truly out of touch you are with reality; "The current draft model curriculum falls short and needs to br substantially redesigned." WRONG! Nowhere does it fall short, at all. This is what's called an OVER-REACH. See the difference? Someone tasks you with teaching children about ethnic studies and you have children perform shame walks (I'm privilege exercises) and teach them the evils of the free market? I thought economics is a different subject matter entirely btw. Not to mention the convenient preamble where you lay claim the ability to CREATE LANGUAGE (just to be able to make cute fake terms like "cisheteropatriarchy" to, again, create blame in class for innocent children, or worse have those kids go back home and blame their parents for their neighbor's misfortune). This is asinine and you need to keep this entire ethnic studies transparent for the entirety of it's drafting process so California knows what type of shenanigans you people are doing behind closed doors
David Martin

