From: Ross Glinkenhouse Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 6:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: BBYO's Public Statement Regarding Revision of Ethnic Studies Curriculum
This email is being sent on behalf of Ben Cohen and Caroline Kramer, Regional Presidents of BBYO Central Region West (San Francisco Bay Area).
Instructional Quality Commission c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks & Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
RE: Public Statement to Revise Issues with Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission, California Department of Education, and State Board of Education,
In response to your joint statement today on the draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:
Our names are Ben Cohen and Caroline Kramer. We're the elected presidents of AZA & BBG, the high school fraternity and sorority portion of BBYO in the Bay Area. BBYO is a teen-led international fraternity and sorority for Jewish teens from all around the world. We have almost 100 years of history with the founding of BBG in San Francisco and a global membership of over 30,000. Today, I write to you on behalf of all those teens who are currently advocating for the Jewish people and on behalf of every alumni, parent, and staff member that continues to support our cause. Since 1924, AZA & BBG have cemented themselves as major stakeholders in the Jewish future and as a group that advocates not only for Jewish rights, but for equality around the world.
Thus, we commend the California Department of Education for instituting ethnic studies into curriculum and putting a focus on improving school climate statewide and making every student feel accepted. We further commend the California Department of Education for recognizing the faults in the original curriculum, faults that were inherently anti-Semitic, and working hard to create a new curriculum that represents the entire state of California.
When re-writing the curriculum, we urge you to not only focus on removing BDS and other problematic sections, but to focus on educating about the many struggles the Jewish people have gone through. The curriculum, as it stood, did a fantastic job of teaching about the hardships that so many ethnicities have gone through. We see it as a critical and major improvement to include chapters that educate about the struggles the Jewish people have gone through over time.
Many students in BBYO have expressed their lack of comfort in public schools due to their Jewish religion, heritage, and ethnicity. Similarly, the whole world is seeing anti-Semitism rise at striking rates as seen this past year with the Tree of Life shooting in Pittsburgh and the Chabad shooting in Poway. The curriculum in question promotes BDS, an organization that has proved time and time again to be a significant contributor to this anti-Semitism, amongst other forms of it, worldwide.
We hope you take this into consideration when determining the new curriculum.

Thank you,
Ben Cohen - Regional President Simon Wiesenthal AZA #2524 Palo Alto
Caroline Kramer - Regional President Josephine Esther Mentzer BBG #2540 Los Altos and Mountain View Representing the following local presidents:
Nathan Gelman - Chapter President House of David AZA #1488 San Jose
Ester Alper - Chapter President Atz' Chaim BBG #2043 San Jose
Yali Goldstein - Chapter President Ramon AZA #195 Sunnyvale
Mira Shlimenzon - Chapter President Jerusalem Shel Zahav BBG #1516 Sunnyvale
Michael Rimboim - Chapter President Morris Adler AZA #1855 Los Gatos
Neta Bar - Chapter President Neshikot BBG #2536 Los Gatos
Matan Hamam - Chapter President G'varim AZA #1281 Los Altos and Mountain View
Isaiah Yisrael - Chapter President Josephine Ester Mentzer BBG #2540 Los Altos and Mountain View
Barak Levitt - Chapter President Simon Wiesenthal AZA #2524 Palo Alto
Naama Bejerano - Chapter President

El Al BBG #1863 Palo Alto
Boris Malykin - Chapter President Machar AZA #1887 San Mateo and Foster City
Tali Beres - Chapter President Chai BBG #1728 San Mateo and Foster City
Ben Jeremy - Chapter President Golden Gate AZA #1929 San Francisco and Marin
Leah Beller - Chapter President San Francisco BBG #1 San Francisco
Tamir Menahemy - Chapter President Dreidel AZA #2525 Oakland
Adiella Kessler - Chapter President Oakland BBG #2 Oakland
Daniel Polonsky - Chapter President David Ben Gurion AZA #2143 San Ramon
Talia James - Chapter President L'Hadash Ahava BBG #2120 San Ramon
Sarah Silverberg-Rajna - Chapter President Marika Winheld BBYO #5224 Fremont and Newark
In Community, __ Ross Glinkenhouse Sr. Regional Director 516.322.7326

