From: David Gabelko Sent: Wednesday, August 14, 2019 9:25 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum
I am quite upset about your decision to consider Jews as an ethnic group to be reviled. That seems to be more openly popular a view than it has been for decades. Here we go again?
Of course, as seems to be the new slant in current Holocaust research, people make too much of a big deal about, after all it was such a long time ago. I think that it is terrible that the struggles that Jewish people had to endure from pharaohs, to kings, to dictators are being ignored. I am appalled that the Ethnic Studies Curriculum is being used to spread anti-Israel rhetoric. As a classroom teacher and graduate of U.C. Berkeley I have been taught that all sides have to be considered to form a balanced view. During the 24 years that I have taught K-12 students I have leaned that the only truly successful classroom is one that is composed of many different groups of people who arrived in the United States from many different countries, at different times in U.S. history. As I have always understood it, all are contributors and all are needed to make us a great nation.
Of course you know all about Jewish families whose relatives were Holocaust survivors and arrived in the United States with only the clothes on their backs. Other Jews were not so lucky and were exterminated in ovens. Shouldn't you also know about the Jews whose ships were not permitted to dock in the U.S. because the federal government didn't want to make problems for itself by having too many Jews in the country, so the government sent the ships back to Europe so that the passengers would be slaughtered?
You know all about Jews being scapegoated in Europe, but what about here? The same reception that the Irish and Italians received so did we. Into the 1960s, want ads still could say, "Jews need not apply." As late as the 1980s a tennis club in Berkeley and a golf club in Oakland didn't admit African Americans or Jew. Universities had "Jew quotas" into the 1960s, with a famous quote from the president of Harvard, in 1920, explaining their quota by saying, "The quota must stand. Otherwise, based on merit alone, Harvard might become majority Jewish. Jews benefit from their limited number at Harvard. Too many Jews would render a Harvard diploma worthless." The same sentiment caused Jews to leave the country if they were to attend medical school
Ignorance regarding social structure and governments in the Middle East is a very bad thing. Knowing of them and turning a blind eye is even worse. Perhaps, in your obvious hatred of Israel, you seem to have overlooked that it is the only place in the Middle East where people can be openly gay and not be murdered for being themselves. What about the "cautionary" photos from Arab countries that show people hanging from cranes for being gay? My sister is a nurse practitioner in the emergency room in another state. Not an insignificant number females from these same countries have to sneak into the ER so that their husbands won't know that they have gone to get help with chronic infections resulting from genital mutilation. Of course, genital mutilation is illegal in the U.S. That's why the women have to sneak in and why their fathers and

husbands beat them for having put these men in jeopardy. Perhaps you could be a little less limited in that you say you decry. Many stories need to be told, otherwise don't tell any.
Respectfully yours,
David Gabelko

