Good morning,
I would like to offer the following comments respective to the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum:
1. It is troubling that "capitalism" is presented as a negative in this curriculum - capitalism has always been a strength of our great country. 2. It is a further concern that minority groups are portrayed solely as downtrodden and continually struggling and resisting. Where is the emphasis on unity? Are we not the UNITED states of America? Why the lopsided emphasis on DIVersity? Doesn't diversity divide and unity unite? We are one people in one great country - where's that emphasis? 3. The curriculum is definitely a propaganda program - why is BDS mentioned at all? Really? This curriculum should be titled, "Ethnic Cleansing" not "Ethnic Studies". As the Redlands Daily Facts (August 8, 2019) stated, "Instead of teaching ethnic studies to educate students about the achievements of diverse people and culture, the curriculum is teaching ethnic studies as a proxy for Anti-Western indoctrination. 4. I strongly support a Civics curriculum such as the one in Arizona - whereby students have to pass a test (similar to CAHSEE) to graduate. Please look into this - schools should be educating students about their common heritage (again, a focus on unity, not "celebrating" our differences.) 5. If schools foment hate "inadvertently" via the inculcation of ethnic oppression in this type of curricula, then who is to blame for the eventual negative outcome, e.g., violence, ignorance, chilling discourse? 6. One of the tenets of Common Core was to teach students to think independently - to highlight different ways to find solutions. How does this curriculum teach students to understand conflicts, not take sides in them. 7. As you are well aware, the state of California is taking a lot of hits in the media with homelessness, high taxes, high crime, commonplace blight, etc. - perhaps the California school system can be a beacon of hope for our future generations by instilling a love of country and a true love of all people - irrespective of their color, race, national origin, creed.
Very sincerely, K. Davis

