From: Linda Matsuno-Parmenter Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 4:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: 2020 Ethnic Studies Curriculum public input
Dear Advisory Committee:
I reviewed the introduction, overview and curriculum. There was much time and effort spent to establish the document. As a person of color and American citizen, I am totally dismayed at the curriculum, I am glad that it is only a recommended and voluntary curriculum as I believe it encourages "victimhood" rather than celebrating racial and cultural backgrounds and history. The curriculum is heavily biased with a leftist progressive bent. I remember learning American history and how each new immigration group started at the bottom and worked at up and assimilated. This included the Italiians, Irish, Jews, etc. All groups had been discriminated until assimilated, yet retaining their customs and cullture. It is important to know the history of all groups and celebrate each of them and their contribution to America. Do you emphasize how blacks participated in every war from the Revolutionary War to the current battles in defending America. I did not like your curriculum model activities. I felt that it promoted racism and class rather than bringing awareness and empathy. There are challenges for the poor over all racial groups and not necessarily because of their race. Poor white children should not be the scapegoat or feel guilty for white privilege.The emphasis should be on what we have in common and how we can assist each other in reaching our potential and the American dream. AOC is not a role model for our children. Her antisemetic remarks are not acceptable especially in an ethnic studies format. I would suggest withdrawing your curriculum and start over again. Include all viewpoints rather than the leftist and politically correct bias.
Thank you for reading my in[ut. I am concerned about the young people in our state. I do not want them indoctrinated or brainwashed. I want them to have an appreciation of all ethnic, racial and national groups. Having been born in a federal concentration camp in California, I know discrimination and my civil rights taken away from my family and myself. Unfortunately, I believe this curriculum does nothing to assist in bringing unity and compassion among groups.
Linda Parmenter

