From: Reuven Taff Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 12:25 AM To: SBE Subject: A Message to All Board Members
*** NOTE: THIS E-MAIL WAS SENT FROM THE SBE CONTACT FORM WEB APPLICATION ***
Title: Rabbi
Organization: Mosaic Law Congregation
Comments or Questions:
I want to personally thank you for the important public statement of August 12, 2019 regarding the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum.
As a former head of a private school in Northern Virginia, I had the opportunity to sit on the Fairfax County Public Schools Textbook Selection Committee. I saw first-hand how some members of committees will advocate their own personal bias and agenda. I recall years ago when members of the textbook committee wanted to include texts that contained maps that listed Palestine, with no reference at all that the State of Israel exists.
When I read the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum proposed by your committee, I was appalled. I immediately contacted every member of my congregation, many of whom have responded and have commented on the curriculum. I so appreciate your roles in advocating for a re-set of this curriculum. However, I must express my grave concern that unless certain members of this curriculum committee are replaced, we will not see tangible results. While your August 12th statement was welcome, I sincerely ask that your Board take additional steps. I strongly urge that you relieve members of the curriculum committee who have, through their actions expressed bias and prejudice and be replaced with non-partisan, unbiased educators with no political agenda whose specialty is curriculum development. To avoid the mistakes of the past, I suggest that the newly formed committee be required to have advisory input from organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) and others to verify historical fact and review the revised draft before it is proposed, to insure that there is sensitivity and no bias or prejudice contained in a curriculum which should educate, not indoctrinate.
Should you or any member of your staff wish to contact me to discuss further, feel free to email me at rabbi@mosaiclaw.org or call on my cell, (916) 996-7118.

Again, I thank you for your leadership on this issue and your consideration of my thoughts going forward on this very serious matter for our state.
Most sincerely,
Rabbi Reuven H. Taff Mosaic Law Congregation Sacramento, CA

