From: Don Gilbert Sent: Thursday, August 15, 2019 2:28 PM To: Ethnic Studies ; CFIRD Subject: Ethnic Studies Curriculum Comment Letter
Ms. Soomin Chao Chair Instructional Quality Commission California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear Chairperson Chao, Members of the Commission, Ethnic Studies Curriculum Committee Members:
I understand that the decision has been made to revise the proposed ethnic studies curriculum that erased the American Jewish experience and inappropriately injected itself into the IsraeliPalestinian conflict. While I very much appreciate that decision, as an American Jew I nonetheless feel compelled to provide comments on related issues.
How Did This Happen?
The fact that the Commission and the Committee enacted and administered a process that resulted in a proposal that would erase the American Jewish experience is very disturbing. Equally disturbing is the fact that the process resulted in proposed ethnic studies curriculum that goes out of its way to promote a slanderous one-sided view of what happens to be the only Jewish State in the world. That the Commission and the Committee could allow this to occur at any point in the process is evidence of a profoundly broken process. It is also evidence of at least some participants in the process having purely political objectives wholly unrelated to the education objectives of the underlying legislation. I implore the Commission to investigate how the process enabled this to happened and to publicly release the results of the investigation.
What Can be Done to Ensure it Never Happens Again?
After learning how the process failed through a thorough investigation, I recommend that the Commission develop a proposal to ensure the process for revising the proposed ethnic studies curriculum does not have similar problems and that the process ensures that those who given the privilege of developing a proposed ethnic studies curriculum do not impose their own political views on that curriculum. In this regard, those of us who are critical of the first proposed ethnic studies curriculum will be monitoring to ensure this is the case.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Respectfully,
Donald B. Gilbert Carmichael, CA

