From: Debra Fryd Sent: Friday, August 2, 2019 10:40 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: The anti- Israel curriculum
I respectfully request the removal of BDS, and other anti- Israel bias from California's model curriculum.
I refer to pages 2,234, 237, 242, 256, 264-69, of said document. Please , we as a nation, must stand for tolerance, love of one another, good will, and inclusion. BDS has a goal of terminating Israel's existence, through economic boycotting of its goods. I urge that you include lessons about American Jews, as an ethnic group, in your curriculum, and their contributions to our society at large. Please include information about those who needed to flee Holocaust oppression, and persecution, and those who faced discrimination in the former Soviet Union, and how Israel is the only viable democracy in the Middle East, respectful of human rights, whereas the surrounding nations are not.
Anti- Semitism has reared its ugly and monstrous head again, in the world. We need to educate our youth to understand other peoples, not to be angry, or bigoted, towards them. We, as educators, need to inform, not to prejudice, because knowledge is powerful. It can unite, and connect us. Please do not include BDS in your curriculum! Kindly be responsible, and demonstrate, through example, the ways that Jewish people added to our lives, in different fields, such as the arts, science, and technology. Understanding, not ignorance, is the key to brotherhood. Presenting one side of a story is not educating, in terms of the facts. It represents a bias, one in which we, as educators need to be very vigilant, and wary of. We have the monumental responsibility to present all of the facts, and distance ourselves from personal beliefs.
We are educators, to open minds to critical thinking, and not to narrow views. As Pope Francis stated, " We have a responsibility to teach our youth" He stated that our mission was to teach love, and not adversity. Let's open our youth's hearts, through their minds, and not instill any negativity, or any desire to hurt another country's peoples. We must move toward progress, through humanism.
All sides of the proverbial " story" should, and must be presented.
Sincerely, Debra and Joseph Fryd

