From: Robert Weston Sent: Thursday, August 1, 2019 8:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Curriculum change
I am writing to comment that I am extremely opposed to changing the curriculum of school children to one that equates capitalism with racism. I believe this is a severe mistake and an incredible insult on the mind of children. Attempting to rewrite history to present a more politically motivated agenda will prove to highly detrimental to the mind of Californian children. Simply because white Americans value paternally guided family structures and black Americans find it difficult to generate the same respect and are more often less successful because the welfare system has made it more lucrative for welfare mother's to survive without a father in the home, does not mean the economic structure is flawed. The welfare state is flawed, based on Democratic ideologies and the rants of PC social justice warriors. I believe honest ethnic studies should be available within the curriculum, as long as it is honest enough to point out that the ethnic races have to own the responsibility of their own education and therefore their success in the capitolist society the provides for all who help themselves.
Study why black males leave their impregnated mates on the government doorstep instead of learning to respect women and the role a father plays in growing healthy educated humans. Many ethnic races become more studied in cheating the welfare system, or selling narcotics because without the threat of disappointing the family, the normalized values of right and wrong are removed. Teach your children that if you are respectful, learn to speak coherently and value completion of education, they will be successful, more successful in a capitolistic system than a socialist or communist, government sanctioned existence.
Don't blame the system. Blame the people...the ones with the choice to be successful within the established ruleset. Teaching Californian children that socialism is the answer, while the rest of the country still lives and thrives in a fiscally responsible and self reliant system will only cause further division in our country.
But knowing how CA seems to blame the government, at least the current administration when immigrants drag their children 1000's of miles across deserts and they come to harm instead of blaming the parent in essence releasing the perpetrator of any responsibility, this email will surely be regarded as racist or at least conservative talking points.
Peiple never value anything that is given to them without cost. If you taught children that they get out of life what they put into it, it would at least be honest as compared to your suggested curriculum change which will create the false narrative that the government is responsible for all woes and only Democrats can provide happiness, by giving them everything. It is honestly dishonest to train a generation of future voters to believe how your proposed curriculum would train them to believe. It's worse than that. You are only lying to yourself if you believe it too. Imposing the views of a small subset of Americans on innocent minds to effect politic change is both dangerous and immoral. Let the ethnic folk who have succeeded instruct children in an elective class, but do not impose your views on our kids.

