From: Kim Green Sent: Saturday, August 3, 2019 8:52 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: feedback on ethnic studies model curriculum/AB331
Dear IQC and State Board of Education,
I am writing to voice strong opposition to anti-Jew bias contained in the current Draft Ethnic Studies Model curriculum currently being considered by the California Department of Education.
This is a bias familiar to those of us with children attending schools with a supposed SocJus focus. It is a bias that will continue to get Jews harassed for being Jews, pushed out of progressive spaces, verbally attacked in the academe, physically assaulted in the streets, and, sometimes, killed.
The documents' authors have, it seems, worked hard to redress institutionalized bias against some identity groups and introduce needed cultural awareness and historical accuracy. But, in doing so, they have introduced significant erasure, false narratives and bias against another.
I would go so far as to say this curriculum in its current form will serve as a primer in leftist antisemitism of the Soviet/Elders of Zion variety. We all know where that ends -- in fact, 2M Jewish refugees from the FSU know very, very well.
You can do better. For all California's students, you must do better.
The goal of ethnic studies is to positively engage and acknowledge the lived REALITIES of students of all backgrounds in order to bridge differences in an academic setting--realities as reported by those students, not foisted on them by outsiders. By erasing and rewriting the lived reality of the Jewish people across millennia as well as in the short-term pluralistic democratic experiment called "America," this curriculum fails to meet that goal. Fails hard, and spectacularly, in fact; I would argue, through its significant distortions and omissions, it actually foments hatred against Jews. I'm sure you invited many voices of other historically oppressed groups to contribute; why didn't you invite Jews? (Not tokens; Jews across the spectrum.)
This document must be rewritten. It is hypocritical, and bears false narratives and stereotypes about the Jewish people. In a time of rising antisemitism around the world, when Jews can't be visible without getting beaten, shot and screamed at, you must look deep within to find the courage to pursue objective truth and fact, without giving in to your own bias, whatever it may be.
Attached, please find my specific section comments on your proposed curriculum in template form.
Kim Green Postmodernism skeptic Indigenous Diaspora Levantine Aspiring SocJus movement member Longtime public school parent, SFUSD In that order.

