From: Jeffrey Rabin Sent: Friday, August 2, 2019 6:15 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear California Department of Education:
I've read through the Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
To put it bluntly: I'm stunned. This is filled with anti-Israel propaganda. What could possibly be the educational value about teaching about the BDS Movement, discrediting criticism of terrorists, and "Comparative Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico." The "Arab American Studies Course Outline" is basic elevating the status of many anti-Israel leaders and anti-Semites. I don't have time at the moment to provide to you the numerous ad hominem, anti-Israel and anti-Semitic statements and writings of many of the folks mentioned, but if you would like, I will work on preparing the record for you, so that when these people are taught in the California public schools, you will understand their deplorable record.
Even the idea of teaching about a country known as "Israel-Palestine" is false and can only be for propaganda purposes. There is no country recognized as "Israel -Palestine." The West Bank and Gaza may be recognized by the UN as "Palestine," but denigrating Israel to being a joint state with Palestine is simply false, and plays into the narrative of Hamas and Hizbollah that Israel doesn't have a right to exist in its entirety.
What's particularly troubling is the emphasis on "comparing the immigrant experience of Arabs and Latinos." Probably about one-half of the State's students are Latino. The only purpose of this section would be to teach Latinos that they should find Arabs as "comrades in arms." Where would that leave Jews???
And, look at some of the hateful language within the curriculum itself:
"We unite from Greater Syria, Africa, to Latin America Here I am with Anita Tegucas Here I am with those who suffer, not with those who sold you Here I am with cultural resistance From the beginning, to victory always! I am with those who are against, with those who have cooperated, with those who are not on our side Some time ago, I calculated, so I decided to invest in Panxi after Pan-Ki broke up As the saying goes, "the situation must be threatened but in reality the situation must stop" For every free political prisoner, an Israeli colony is expanded For each greeting, a thousand houses were demolished They use the press so they can manufacture, but when my sentence is judged, reality presents itself"
At one point the curriculum purports to teach Key Ethnic Terms, including "microaggressions." This curriculum is not a micro-aggression: it is a hostile, anti-Israel propaganda "macro-aggression."
Over 50 pages of this are devoted to this false narrative, and I urge you to reject it.
Sincerely,
Jeffrey A. Rabin Los Angeles, CA

