From: Miriam Vitale Sent: Saturday, August 3, 2019 2:55 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Perceived bias...
BDS is a slanted viewpoint against Israel and I find it racist that this is being proposed as factual without balanced teaching including how Israel sends doctors all over the world whenever there is any crisis. The quality of life for Arab Israelis is superior to that of any Arab country inclusive, with more freedoms for men, women and children. Terrorist attacks on Israel, 600 shellings alone on May 5-6th of this year, threaten Israeli civilians, economy and general wellbeing.
Palestinians have some legitimate concerns, granted, but the one thing they refuse to agree to is the right of Israel to exist as a Jewish state/country, to be able to self determine their right to exist which has been threatened in every generation.
Jews have been in that region for more than 3000 years. We have been thrown out, murdered, banished to diaspora time and time again. Our "Western Wall", the only remainder of our holy temple in Jerusalem is ancient and proof of this land as the center of our religion and culture. It's not possible to separate Israel from Jews and vice versa.
Over the past 70 years at least 100,000 Jes were forcibly removed from Arab countries like Iran and Yemen. Where could they go? Does anyone stand up for their rights to have stayed in those lands?
Israel in 1948 had Jews who lived there previously, but life was tough as the land was rocks and desert. Thankfully some Jews were able to escape Hitler's death camps and ethnic cleansing throughout Europe and make it to Israel when no other country would accept them en masse.
On the first day of Israeli independence, 5 different Arab armies attacked Israel. It's a miracle Israel prevailed!
Israelis have built a modern infrastructure maintaining antiquities side by side with planting trees, hospitals, water desalination systems, universities and in my humble opinion, the best military in the world.
If Arabs would put down their weapons there would be peace. If Israel put down their weapons, there would be no more Israel (Quoted, not my statement).
There is much misinformation and a lot of this being tweeted in constant sound bites... this is very hurtful to Jews all over the world who only one generation ago survived an attempted total extermination of our people, though ever aware still of the 6 million lives lost during Hitler's attempted genocide, we say Never Again. Please don't make us the bad guys in a very complex political predicament in the middle east.
Thanking you for your time (I realize this is long) and consideration of revisiting your plans for altering biased curriculum in California.
Sincerely, Miriam Vitale Woodbury, CT

