From: Yair Hadas Sent: Monday, August 5, 2019 10:11 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Madam/Sir,
As a Jewish citizen of this country I am deeply concerned to learn about your including the BDS antisemitic movement in the 2020 ethnic studies curriculum.
The curriculum is totally biased against Israel and the Jews. It portraits an impression that Israel is a colonial Jewish state oppressing an Arab minority, when this is completely far from the truth. Israel is a democracy with over 20% of its citizens are non Jewish minorities with equal rights. Many of them are Israeli Arabs, both Muslim and Christian. The conflict with the Palestinians is a conflict lasting over 100 years, long before Israel was established, and Israel is not the only at fault here. There have been many attempts to reach a peace agreement and you mention none. The Palestinians chose many times violence over negotiations. Palestinian Arab were slaughtering Jews even before there was Israel. They wiped out the Hebron Jewish community in 1929, community that existed for generations, long before diaspora Jews started immigrating back to their homeland in 1882. Israel had over 1000 dead, the equivalent of 15 9/11 attacks relative to its size, prior to building the wall. The Palestinians were in control of over 85% of their territory before the suicide attacks started back in 2001. Israel had no choice but to do something about it, and the wall was best solution to avoid bloodshed in both sides. Israel disengaged from Gaza in 2006. Instead of investing in their citizens and negotiate further land returns, the Palestinians voted for the Hamas, and let it take over Gaza. Hamas has fired thousands of rockets into Israel, with the goal of killing all Jews and destroying Israel. This is why Israel is not willing to give back land in the west bank unless there are gauntness that this won't happen in the west bank as well, which is 10 miles from the majority of Israels population. The Palestinian Arabs were killing Jews in the hundreds, if not thousands, even before Israel occupied Gaza and the West Bank in the 1967 war. The reason there was a 1967 war is that the Arabs wanted to kill all the Jews and destroy Israel.
If you want to give an example of oppressed people there are many better examples which their facts are based on true events and data, unlike the BDS movement. To mention just few: Muslim's in China, LGBTs in the Muslim world. The Jews during the Holocaust, and in general, even in America. South Africa is another very good example, which is completely different than the situation between Israel and the Palestinians.
The BDS is promoting false information and hatred towards Israel and the Jews. If you choose to mention the BDS, you should present it in an unbiased way, and include the background and reasons for the existing situation.
This kind of biased presentation is very dangerous especially when presenting this information to clueless students who will believe that these are the facts, and thus will have hostile views towards Israel and towards the Jews in general. Is this your intention?
Why isn't there a mention of the Palestinian authority being a dictatorship? That they are oppressing their christian minorities, their LGBT population, that they won't allow Jews to live among them?

There are 0 Jews living in Gaza, but 20% of Israel is minorities, mostly Arabs. Why is that? You mention the Palestinian refugees, but what about the equivalent number of Arab Jewish refugees who had to flee from the Arab countries after 1948? Israel took all of them in. Egypt and Jordan, who controlled Gaza and West Bank respectfully, chose not to because they wanted to create a problem Israel and the Palestinians have to deal with to this day.
Please see the attached formal forms for more information. Please revise the curriculum and remove BDS from it. There are far better and fact based examples one could use in the classroom.
Sincerely Yair Hadas

