From: Rachael Frost Sent: Saturday, August 3, 2019 10:51 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Commentary
Good morning,
I thoroughly recommend an ethnic, gender, and sexuality studies curriculum - but this isn't it. Such a curriculum should study and address bias and differences, but the curriculum itself should not BE biased. Nor should it push agendas.
I am also not a fan of having legitimately convicted murderers lauded as heroes for overcoming their "circumstances." Show brilliance and resilience and good choices in the face of adversity - not those who chose themselves over others and are now capitalizing on crime because they have little else to do with their time except reflect. The families of those murdered at the hands of these "good examples" are not to be forgotten. Show the ignorance of racism and gender-bias and homophobia and ways to overcome those ugly traits through acceptance of differences and kindness, rather than produce a curriculum that seems to hate our country itself just a bit and seeks to denounce and demonize capitalism.
My opinion only - back to the drawing board. The idea is good, the execution doesn't reach the goal. I wouldn't let my kids be part of this curriculum, just as I would remove them from any religious studies, as both are focusing on a one-sided perspective rather than a path of learning and exploration. But I would continue to teach them kindness, acceptance, assistance, courage to stand up when bad things are happening, protection of those weaker than yourselves in the face of adversity, and brother and sisterhood together, which should be the end message of your curriculum. Not further pushing good people apart by labeling all into "the bad" and "the good."
I guess I would challenge the curriculum developers to ask themselves truly, what is the goal of this class? What do you hope to achieve? Because if studying past hardship and bias in an effort to reduce it across our world is at least part of the goal, you are not reaching it here with your conclusions. Find the areas where broad conclusions based on political perspective are incorporated and ask if you'd want that coming from a more rigid political agenda into your children's classroom. Then remove those conclusions, study the reality of what happened, and provide an avenue for discussion and selfdetermination.
Thank you for the opportunity to share my opinion on the curriculum.
RFrost

