From: Dillon Hosier Sent: Tuesday, August 6, 2019 11:53 AM To: IQC ; Stephanie Gregson; Tracie Yee Subject: Letter for ICQ Members
Hi Stephanie and Tracie,
Please find attached letter for the IQC members regarding California's draft ethnic studies model curriculum. Would you please ensure that commissioners receive a copy of this letter?
My organization and our community has serious concerns about the model curriculum and looks forward to working with the commission moving forward to ensure equitable treatment in future draft versions.
Thank you,
Dillon L. Hosier Chief Advocacy Officer
Israeli-American Civic Action Network | Israeli-American Civic Education Institute

August 5, 2019
Stephanie Gregson, Executive Director Instructional Quality Commission c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks & Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
Dear Ms. Gregson,
I am writing to you on behalf of the Israeli-American Civic Action Network, an immigrant rights advocacy organization representing over two hundred thousand Israeli-American immigrants in California, regarding the Instructional Quality Commission's recent release of a proposed ethnic studies model curriculum.
In particular, we have serious concerns about the inclusion of the boycott, divestment, and sanctions (BDS) movement against Israel. The model curriculum uses the following definition of BDS:
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS)- is a global social movement that currently aims to establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions. Inspired by tactics employed during the South African anti-apartheid movement, the Palestinian-led movement calls for the boycott, divestment, and sanctioning of the Israeli government until it complies with International law. BDS proponents and organizers have called for the global community to boycott or withdraw support from Israel and companies associated with it. The second component of BDS calls for governments, banks, universities, and other institutions to withdraw monetary support (divestment) from Israel and its companies. And finally, the third component--sanctions-- asks international governments to hold Israel accountable for its actions through legislation, trade and military agreements, among other measures.
This definition is not only entirely one-sided but its inclusion elevates a fringe perspective against Israel into the mainstream and entirely politicizes the national origin of a major California community of IsraeliAmerican immigrants. No other nation or national origin is subject to the same treatment in the model curriculum. Most disturbingly, the model curriculum's definition of BDS in its current form is akin to defining the Ku Klux Klan as a social movement that promotes free speech and free expression while ignoring the organization's racist underpinnings.
We respectfully request that the proposed ethnic studies curriculum take California's diverse communities and perspectives into account through a revision of the current model. Drawing from your own glossary, the "master narrative" advanced in the current model curriculum only serves to marginalize and disenfranchise California's immigrant population from Israel and this is not acceptable.
Sincerely,

Dillon L. Hosier Chief Advocacy Officer
CC: California Department of Education, Instructional Quality Commission Members
2049 CENTURY PARK EAST, SUITE 2680, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90067

