I am attaching a Word.doc that has my comment on the 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
For your information, I have taught Cultures of Latin America and Cultural Anthropology at the community college. One of the course objectives require students to be exposed to diverse cultures, not just in the United States, but in many parts of the world and at different periods of time. Students need to see cultures and individual members in a range of contexts with positive and negative adaptations to their social environment.
This preview of a class on Arab-Americans is stilted and far too ideological to benefit the student's understanding of this highly diverse community. While there are social tensions in every culture, it seems as if the reasons for many Arabs to have migrated to the U.S. is a mystery rather than what they would say for themselves as a place for liberty and an escape from an oppressive regime in their home country (depending when they would have arrived in the U.S.) And for their children, there are real questions of whether women continue to suffer the male dominance in their heritage country -- witnessed in the problem of honor killings.
There are many positive things in Arab and Arab-American culture, but the course veers into negatively and lacks a balance with respect to the pluralism and democratic culture in the U.S.
The course outline also holds up the BDS organization in a positive light, when it has been condemned in the State of California. The plight of Palestinians is no more depressing than those of Jews who were forced out of several Arab countries where they had lived for several thousand years. Where is this perspective in the outline? The implication is one of anti-semitism is the writers of this curriculum.
I hope you can re-frame the course to show balance in the experience of this and other cultures in the U.S.
If you need further information from me, please let me know.
Thank you, Joe Nalven, Ph.D. Anthropology, J.D.

