From: Susan Benyowitz Sent: Tuesday, August 6, 2019 10:00 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject:
Dear Ethnic Studies, If the proposed anti-Israel studies curriculum is left unchallenged, it will be a disaster for all Jews in California. BDS is the tipping point of a global campaign to demonize, weaken and ultimately do away with the Jewish state. Its fundamental anti-Semitism has been called out by the German Bundestag. It is opposed by the vast majority of Democrats and Republicans. I am not opposed to an ethnic studies cirriculum, but I'm very concerned about the imbalance with the specific Palestinian narrative in this case. There much more than Palestinian talking points, whose leaders have institutionalized victimhood as their core identity. All this comes at a time when many Arabs from the Gulf are beginning to normalize their interaction with the Jewish world, including Israelis. Any curriculum should focus on all Arab nations and celebrate those that have religious tolerance as a norm, like Bahrain--not, unfortunately, the Palestinian Authority. This is nothing more than an attempt by fringe activists to highjack the model ethnic-studies curriculum for California high schools in the service of radical political goals. Educators and students should not be denied the opportunity to learn about the distinct culture of the Jewish community and its experience as an ethnic group in America. It is outrageous that an effort to teach students about marginalized communities is being used to promote a campaign of hate against Israel, Furthermore, Jews should be included as a historically oppressed people who have a right to self-determination in their ancestral home. The State of California must modify this curriculum to remove anti-Israel bias and include education about the Jewish community. I urge the State Senate to revise the legislation establishing this curriculum to include safeguards against biased and inaccurate educational guidelines. California needs to offer its students an opportunity to understand fully the role of ethnicity, race and religion in the life of all its

citizens, especially those previously ignored. But this proposed curriculum is not even close to that. Sincerely, Sue Benyowitz, Los Angeles

