From: bill stasiewicz Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 11:41 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Curriculum
I would like to submit my thoughts on the Ethnic Studies Curriculum based on my reading of the overview document.
I recently read the overview for the recommended Ethnic Studies Curriculum being developed for our grammar school and high school children by the California Board of Education. We have a serious problem here. This curriculum is Marxist-Leninist, opinion-based not fact based, cites murders and criminals as fighters for social justice (sound familiar comrade?). This type of ideology/religion has infiltrated many governments over the past 80+ years using these same sorts of tactics and historically led to the most intolerant regimes in modern history.
Next, this curriculum should not be called 'Ethnic Studies' because it does not include all ethnicities. The authors masquerade as progressives because true progressives care about the advancement and justice for all ethnicities. The authors of this Curriculum are hiding behind the word 'ethnic' to create a curriculum that is racist and meant to incite friction and create civil unrest between people of color and European Americans.
My next observation, the messages shared here are meant to demonize many of the principles that our country is built on: free-trade, free speech, liberty, religious freedom and tolerance. This is where I feel a true religious tone (Marxism/Leninism) being imposed by the authors of this curriculum. For instance, free speech is fine until it is contrary to the author's points of view. Once contrary, speech then becomes venomous or not 'politically correct', and the authors advocate for intolerance and action. The authors even share stories using violence to achieve their objectives. This is classic Marxist/Leninist teaching. This sort of rhetoric is religious in nature sharing views about sex, race, social justice, different ethnicities and positioning them as real facts vs. what they truly are, opinions or a point of view. We don't teach Christianity, Muslim beliefs, or Buddhism in school, that is forbidden. However these views shared by the Ethnic Studies Committee are being characterized as 'politically correct' or appropriate thinking based on the view of the authors. As far as I can tell, this is an attempt by Marxist-Leninist educators to push their religious views on our children which is unconstitutional. If our college-aged children CHOOSE to take a course like this in college, that is their choice. Exposing our kids and forcing them to listen to some of this rhetoric is akin to forcing a kid to sit through chapel, temple, or other religious education class in a public school. We are walking on the most slippery of slopes.
If we truly feel as a heterogeneous state of people that these views should be shared as part of a history course, they have a place. However, they have to be compared/contrasted fairly and equally with different or even opposing viewpoints to truly be characterized as 'educational'. We must treat the education of our young people as sacred duty showing balance and fairness. I wouldn't want my kids to only have muslim/christian/jewish/buddhist points of view, and I certainly don't want only a MarxistLeninist point of view to be our 'standard' or 'guide' for our teachers to share with our children. It's dangerous when taught in a vacuum and is contrary to American beliefs.
My request is to start over from scratch with a balanced Committee with opposing viewpoints.

Warm Regards, Bill

