From: Susan Meyers Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 11:25 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Concerns regarding proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Thank you for this opportunity to voice my concerns and comments related to the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum.
First: My concernsIn the light of the recent rise in anti-Semitism, I am appalled that this proposed curriculum does not address antisemitism, especially given the attention to anti-Muslim sentiments in our state and country. What appears to be support of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions efforts we see on college and university campuses is presented in the curriculum without a balanced approach to the history of the Israeli-Palstinian struggles that even our most informed and courageous politicians have not been able to untangle.
I appeal to the committee to review and rewrite the references to Jews and Israel to clarify the truth of the Jewish presence and contributions to the state of California and the extremely complicated and twosided issues and questions to be resolved among the members of the Israeli and Palestinian governments.
Second: I applaud the committees recommendations regarding the pedagogy they describe. I fully agree with the comprehensive methods encouraged to promote learning among our diverse body of students across the state of California. Engaging in active learning, critical thinking and across modalities is representative of the current state of the art and science of teaching and learning.
Third: It is certainly time for a well researched, thoughtful, honest curriculum in ethnic studies. As a student in California's public schools in the 1950s and 1960's I learned about the wonderful work of the church that built the missions. Not until much later did I learn who actually built the missions and the horrific events that the native Americans underwent in California and across our country.
I am writing in the hopes that the proposed curriculum will provide students in our 21st century public schools with an accurate account of the history and current events related to the diverse ethnic population of California, national and international communities.
Respectfully,
Susan Meyers, Ph.D. Emeritus Dean Lurie College of Education San Jose State University

