From: Sharon Davida Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 1:18 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: 2020 Ethnic studies curriculum draft
Hello,
My name is Sharon Davida. I am a mother of three public school students, a proud Jew and a former Israeli citizen. I see in the list for the next year curriculum that you intend to teach about how Muslim people in and outside of our country are being discriminated against and villainized after 9/11. You also intend to teach about the BDS and compare the Palestinian-Israeli border to our border with Mexico. As a former Israeli resident that had first hand experience with the intricate political situation in Israel, I urge you to reconsider the direction you're choosing to take here. I think it is important our kids learn about all religions and social issues and that objective information is taught to them in order for them to make an educated opinion about how they want things to look in the future. I find that these suggested subjects are going to steer their young minds to see Israel as an aggressor instead of the victim of violence directed towards the country by all surrounding Muslim countries. The BDS movement that calls to boycott Israel is a clear example to anti-Israel and anti-Semitic action that attacks all of the citizens of Israel regardless of their religion. Presenting this movement in a positive light is a direct action of the education system against Israel as a country and its citizens (of all religion affiliation), that suffer financially due to the boycott.
Please make sure the teachers or speakers that talk to the students regarding the issues presented in the list attached use objective study materials that equally represent Israel and the US points of view as well. Unfortunately, too often we find the teacher presenting the information manages to infuse their subjective political option into the taught material. In this case, doing so would lead to further antiSemitic action towards Jews in our country that are already being gunned down in their place of worship and attacked on the streets.
Sincerely, Sharon Davida LAc
-Regards,
Sharon Davida LAc

