From: rachel dawson Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 10:07 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing today as a deeply concerned Californian who is personally offended and appalled by the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum of the California Department of Education.
In light of the tremendous anti-Semitic undertone that has seized hold of the UC school system and created an environment that is hostile and threatening to its Jewish students, it is quite remarkable that the State Board would go so far as to champion a curriculum that celebrates anti-Semitic movements and upholds age-old anti-Semitic tropes.
Of particular concern is the glorification of the BDS movement, positioning it as a unequivocal moral effort to secure civil rights when, in fact, it is the avowed intention of the movement's creators to destroy Israel, the world's only Jewish State. BDS is a movement predicated on lies and propaganda that have no place in the California educational system. Claims of apartheid (actually, 20% of Israelis are Arab who have equal rights under the law and serve in all branches of government) and genocide (there has never been a more humane military in the history of the world than the IDF, and rapid Palestinian population growth disproves any theory of genocide) among others are easily dispelled. But instead, pseudo-intellectuals and the uninformed masses hold them up as if they are truth, the moral high ground.
Equally alarming is the overshadowing of anti-Semitism by other forms of hatred and discrimination when most hate crimes in America are, in fact, motivated by hatred of Jews. It is no secret that anti-Semitism is on a steep rise in America and abroad. If the goal of your curriculum is to raise awareness and tolerance, this seems to be an extraordinarily self-contradictory omission.
Every time there is an anti-Semitic incident like Pittsburgh or Poway, the nation is quick to rush in and condemn it. How about taking some responsibility for the indoctrination of our youth and the tacit (if not overt) approval of anti-Semitic movements and teachings in the California educational system?
If this curriculum is adopted, it will truly be a disgrace to our state.
Sincerely incensed,
Rachel Dawson

Laguna Beach, California

