From: Louis harris-att Sent: Tuesday, August 6, 2019 10:19 PM To: Kenneth McDonald; Ethnic Studies Subject: 2020 Ethnic studies model curriculum
My wife & I became aware of the draft of the 2020 Ethnic Studies model Curriculum. My wife has been a teacher for many years, and we have both lived in California for 34 years. We agree with the basic premise that teaching cutural diversity and inclusion, aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism. Many parts of this draft model curriculum has political overtones with a political agenda that we see as going against the main reason for the curriculum.
As a Californian, and an American, we are deeply disturbed by this draft model curriculum being reviewed by the State of california.which openly promotes hateful boycotts against Israel and doesn't talk about anti-semitism as a form of bigotry. Jewish people have been targeted by hate & bigotry because of their religion. This can be seen in the Poway synagogue shooting, Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, and of course 6 million lives lost in the holocaust in Europe. In all of the cases, Jews were targeted because of their religious beliefs. This is still ongoing. White supremacists and white nationals include Jews in their hatred and speeches. These groups include Moslems, Blacks, Hispanics, Gays, as well as Jews.They are all frequent targets of racism.
I don't see the Jewish people mentioned in the draft to fight off antisemitism as a form of hatred and bigotry toward minority groups. Jews are a minority and probably make up 3 % of US population. I am appalled that an educational effort meant to teach students about marginalized communities doesn't include that Jews are a frequent target of racism.
The other area that we found disturbing in this draft is the political pro-palestinian stance regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This draft (page 234) has a sample lesson plan encouraging teachers to highlight BDS without talking about other points of view. The US congress with a high percentage of bi-partisan support disavowed anything to do with BDS. Also on page 234 the sample lesson plan promotes a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and the US policies on the border of Mexico. Israel's protection of its citizens from Palestinians who want to push them into the sea per hamas rulers in Gaza. The policies on the US border are being driven for political purposes and are not necesasary and no ones life in the US is endangered. The 2 ideas are not equal.
I don't want this email to be about defending Israel. Like all countries in the world they have their own issues to work out. I don't know the authors of this draft, but it seems to be pro-Palestinian and single out Israel out of all of the bad actor countries in the world how they treat minorities such as the Kurds, gays, minority groups in many African countires, etc. If you want to bring up BDS, or anti-Israel subjects, at least be fair and give both sides point of view.
Thank you for reading my concerns.

Louis & Susan Harris

