From: jcmchatton Sent: Tuesday, August 6, 2019 9:24 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: New Ethnic Studies Curriculum
I am shocked that such an anti-American curriculum such as this will be taught to our high school, and possibly middle and elementary school students.
The poorly disguised, extreme left progressive theory and thought in this document, truly sickens me.
The document lists movements, such as the Occupy Wallstreet fiasco, where George Soros funded socialist fascists defecated in parks, the streets, sexually assaulted some, breaking the law in many ways, so that law abiding citizens could not use these areas, shows the lawlessness and absurdity of the far left in thinking this faux social movement was in any way about justice.
Capitalism is also ranked with white supremacy in your document. Capitalism has drawn billions out of poverty, provides needed jobs, products, and services, that benefit all people, in the U.S. and abroad. Communists and socialists lie about capitalism so they can control all means of production. This will place their high ranking brethren in positions of power and extreme wealth, while they abuse everyone else.
Ms. Shakur, pardon me if I didn't use the proper pronoun, murdered a police officer. She now is hiding in Cuba. Why should any child honor a murderous cop killer?
Progressives have done more to hold back the black community, than any capitalist. The reason many blacks are in poverty is because of the New Deal and other progressive handouts, you have turned many blacks dependent on government. You destroyed black families by making it okay for women to have children without being married, and set up Planned Parenthood in their neighborhoods to kill million of black babies. Incidentally, you Democrats are the ones who enslaved Africans, created Jim Crow laws, and created the KKK. Since Donald Trump became president, more blacks are employed than ever before in the history of our country.
Your ridiculous use of pronouns is also anti-American. You are either a he or a she. My dog has never tried to be transgender.
Why not admit the real purpose of this document? You wish to indoctrinate our children so they will be good little communists or socialists, so you can turn California into contemporary Venezuela. If things go your way, you'll have your newly created sheeple voting for you, until you have completely destroyed California. My children will not be drinking your Koolaid!

