From: SBE Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 10:38 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: FW: A Message to All Board Members From: Audrey Israel Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 10:20 PM To: SBE Subject: A Message to All Board Members *** NOTE: THIS E-MAIL WAS SENT FROM THE SBE CONTACT FORM WEB APPLICATION *** Title: Parent Organization: Oak Park High School Comments or Questions: Dear CDE, IQC, and State Board of Education, I am writing to respond to your call for public comment on the Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum: I am extremely distressed that the Draft Curriculum openly promotes hateful and discriminatory boycotts against Israel - the one Jewish State - instead of helping students understand different forms of racism and discrimination. The glossary of the curriculum claims that the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel seeks to "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions." This could not be further from the truth. The BDS movement seeks to demonize and delegitimize Israel, and ultimately destroy the Jewish State, through boycotts. These calls for boycotts are reminiscent of the Nazi-era calls to boycott Jews. Even the German government denounced the BDS movement, calling its methods "anti-Semitic," this past May. The curriculum also invokes age-old stereotypes against Jews, and explicitly excludes Jews as an ethnic minority, by encouraging teachers to use an anti-Israel poem that

insinuates Jews control the world and the media to manipulate the public. (p. 256, 264269). The curriculum does not include a single lesson about the Jewish community, and only mentions Jews in passing. With anti-Semitism on the rise, I fear for the future of my grandchildren here in America. The proposed curriculum will only encourage hatred toward my people, while also neglecting to teach the next generation the freedoms our nation truly stand for. For the sake of my children, my grandchildren, American youth, and the future generation, I implore you to remove the BDS movement and anti-Semitic stereotypes from the curriculum. Instead, I urge you to add lessons about American Jews, and explain the age-old virus of anti-Semitism, which has plagued my people since the beginning of time.
Sincerely, Audrey Israel

