From: mark rodebaugh Sent: Wednesday, August 7, 2019 5:34 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Fwd: Ethnic Studies Curriculum Feedback
California Department of Education - Instructional Quality Commission To Whom It May Concern:
I am writing to express my concern and frustration over the proposed ethnic studies curriculum draft. Four years to accomplish this? Time and money spent on a program "that is not required". I am sure someone will legislate this to be mandatory . Do students need academic help navigating diversity? Ethnic studies - sounds positive, but wait a minute. Does our diverse society need jargon like "cisheteropatriarchy" or "hybridities"?
Interesting is the timing of the last day for review: August 15th is when school starts, not to mention most families have been on vacation over the past 2 or 3 weeks. Articles such as "California To Teach Kids That Capitalism Is Racist" probably went un-noticed. The CDE draft expresses that "Capitalism is a form of power and oppression". The Bee article by Elaine Chen indicated only 67 responses had been received. Californians may not care or may not even have known that there was this proposed draft.
I was dismayed at the selection of "heroes". Bombers, cop killers, imprisoned paramilitarist warriors and malcontents who seek power and group think control. This selection is not objective or aspirational.
History is a wonderful reference. Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution and the Re-education programs: Rebellion against teachers was justified. Abuse, shaming and beatings were common by the Red Guard...they were13 year olds. The Cultural Revolution was political correctness. Radicalism in the schools held "Knowledge was linked to Capitalism".
Suggestions for the draft: Eliminate propaganda, find heroes who exemplify hard work, talent and leadership. You cannot cover every ethnic group in California and that is where individual districts can create the best curriculum. Encourage tolerance, respect and independent thinking. Don't forget that bilingual education failed in California. Students should not be made into agents of change with teachers condoning sit-ins and marching.
I paraphrase Mr Evers (noted below) the California Department of Education should not be training students to become ideological activists and proponents of identity-group think politics.
References: Williamson M. Evers - "California Wants To Teach Your Kids That Capitalism Is Racist" Anthony Kronman - Essay from "The Assault of American Excellence"
Respectfully,

Marcia Rodebaugh

