From: Ben Zohar Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 12:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Public Comments for Ethnic Studies
The following are my public comments on the ethnic standards course model:
General comment: It is deeply troubling and concerning that the antisemitism abound in the Ethnic Standards went unnoticed and unchecked. Ignorance of antisemitism cannot account for this mistake because, presumably, these standards were developed by well educated people. People who should have known better. My comments do not reflect the totality of the antisemitism that exists in these documents, which is vast, just some highlights.
Chapter 2 comments, page 242: Evidence of the antisemitism of this model curriculum can be found by the failure to mention Jewish refugees from the Arab world (eg, Yemen, Iraq, Algeria, Syria, Libya, Egypt, Morocco). From 1948-1972, 850,000 Jews were uprooted from their homes in the Arab nations. Approximately 200,000 of these Jewish refugees immigrated to Europe and the USA (Source: "The Jews from Arab Lands" by Maurice Roumani). The remaining 650,000 of these refugees went to Israel. The combined Jewish population in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Iraq, Egypt, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Bahrain, Sudan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey is 33,509. In 1948, it was 1,711,850. The ethnic cleansing of Jews from these countries is greater than Europe under the Nazi regime. The omission of Jewish refugees from Arab countries erases the suffering and oppression they endured.
Chapter 4 comments: 1) in the glossary, only one foreign country is singled out for attack. Unsurprisingly, it is the only Jewish nation in the world, Israel. This is text book antisemitism. 2) In America, the ethnic group that is the largest victim of hate crimes is explicably not mentioned in the standards and no mention of it in the glossary. Again, it is not surprising, though troubling, that this ethnic group are Jewish people. According to the FBI, 58% of religious based hate crimes were targeted at Jews in 2017 (Source: FBI's Annual Hate Crime Statistic Report for 2017). Hate crimes against Jewish people spiked 33% in 2017. Yet no mention to antisemitism can be found. 3) the BDS movement is antisemitic. In 2016, California Governor Brown singed into law that prohibited companies engaging in boycott or discrimination against sovereign nations. This passed with overwhelming support from both Democrats and Republicans. This was a direct repudiation against BDS. California officials see it for what it is, antisemitic. Interestingly enough, in these standards, it paints the BDS movement in positive light while omitting any mention of antisemitism. 4) Throughout the document, Israel is mentioned as "Israel/Palestine". Israel is a sovereign state, recognized under international law, and should be treated as a separate and sovereign nation.
Thank you for the time, Ben Zohar Retiree

