From: Corrine Cardoza Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 3:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: AB 331 public Comments on Ethnic Curriculum
California Department of Education (CDE) Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) and State Board of Education
August 8, 2019
Dear CDE, IQC, and State Board of Education,
In response to your call for public comment on the Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, I am submitting the following input:
As a grandmother of 10, a contracted facilitator in the public schools, and a pastor of a local congregation, helping students appreciate diversity and educating them about different forms of racism and hate is important to me. I'm pleased to see this as a part of our education system. That is why I am profoundly disappointed that the Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum excludes the Jewish community, omits antisemitism as a form of bigotry, and openly promotes hateful boycotts against Israel.
As an involved member of CUFI, a Christian Pro Israel organization with a membership of 7.1 million, I am very aware of the incidents of Antisemitism and its alarming increase around the state, nation and world. Specially in the light of the attack on the Poway synagogue in Poway, California, in April 2019. Also I still remember the firebombing on three Sacramento area synagogues in 1999. As I attended a 20 year memorial I witnessed the long term impact on our Jewish community.
The following are specific examples of problems with the curriculum:
A glossary for the curriculum includes a definition of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to, "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions". It then repeats more BDS talking points while offering no critical perspectives about this campaign of hate, which seeks to end Israel's existence. In 2016 CA actually passed and signed into law anti BDS legislation AB 2844. The sample lesson plans for the curriculum: Encourage teachers to highlight BDS and a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine, but no voices critical of their perspectives (p. 234). Promote a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico (p. 234). Use unclear language that implies "Israel-Palestine" as a whole is an Arab country (p. 237).

Frame the Palestinian narrative of the 1948 War as fact, with no alternative perspectives (p. 242). Encourage teachers to use an anti-Israel poem which insinuates Jews control the media and use it to manipulate the public - a common antisemitic slur (p. 256, 264-269). The Introduction of the proposed curriculum states that, "The implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to... enable students to develop a deep appreciation for cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism." Despite this stated goal, the curriculum does not feature a single lesson about the Jewish community, mentioning Jews only in passing. With antisemitism rising and ignorance about the Jewish people still a major problem in our society, the exclusion of Jews from this curriculum is deeply disappointing. Especially in the light of the attack on the Poway synagogue in Poway, California, in April 2019. I recently attended a memorial of the 20 year firebombing on three synagogues in Sacramento, California in 1999. This left a profound impact on the Jewish community in our region.
I strongly urge you to remove antisemitic stereotypes, BDS, and all anti-Israel bias from the curriculum. Furthermore, I urge you to add lessons about American Jews as an ethnic group and antisemitism as a form of racism. This should include American Jews who fled the Holocaust, oppression in the Middle East, and discrimination in the Former Soviet Union, among others, including the UN,
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely, Corrine Cardoza
Mather, CA
Reference specific pages 2, 234, 237, 242, 256, 264-269

