From: Nathan Pam Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 3:28 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: "Hey Jew boy, give me some of your bagel"
That's what I heard from a stranger while walking down the street at 10 years old. Time to rethink not caring when we're targeted by hate - that has happened to us for too long.
- Nathan Pam
To whom it may concern:
Jews and Israeli-Americans Were Intentionally Excluded from the Proposed Curriculum
Despite being an ethnic studies curriculum meant to objectively focus on American minorities, the American-Jewish community has been entirely excluded. Given the many obvious points of Jewish communal contribution throughout the history of the United States, as well as the high-profile nature of anti-Semitic attacks that have recently taken place in Poway and elsewhere, it is obvious that this omission was not merely due to an insensitive oversight, but rather disturbingly, was intentional.
As stated by the California DOE, "the curriculum is written for educators or community members seeking guidance in developing a local high school ethnic studies program that reflects the pupil demographics in their communities". Per the most recent U.S. Census estimates, there are roughly 8,000,000 to 10,000,000 Americans that identify as Jewish which is 1.7% -2.6% of the total U.S. Population. There are also almost 250,000 Israeli-Americans in California. It is unacceptable that this curriculum includes no representation of Jewish and Israeli-American identity whatsoever.
In general, the Jewish people are a distinct group bearing a variety of religious, ethnic and cultural characteristics. Likewise, they collectively possess a unique and relevant history, cultural practices, traditions, and have made key contributions to American society. American Jews and Israeli-Americans possess a unique immigrant experience, tracing back to the American Colonial period and extending through more recent waves of arrival. This includes those who fled the Holocaust and persecution, as well as others who have come to make unique contributions to America. Despite facing discrimination, Jews and Israeli-Americans have nevertheless come to exemplify important aspects of the merits to be found in America's

overall values, and have made many impressive contributions to society. To invalidate Jewish and Israeli-Americans by excluding their worthwhile narratives would teach the wrong lessons to students.

If anything, now is a time to enhance students' understanding and overall sensitivity toward the Jewish community. A report issued by the Anti-Defamation League detailed a shocking 67% increase in incidents from 2016 to 2017. A 2015 Brandeis Center-Trinity College study found that most Jewish-American college students had personally experienced or witnessed anti-Semitism. An AMCHA Initiative survey found a 45% increase in anti-Semitic activity on college and university campuses between 2015 and 2016. Given that anti-Semitic incidents are increasing at an alarming rate in the United States, it is outrageous that the proposed curriculum would nevertheless seek to instead promote the anti-Semitic BDS Movement, which has been widely condemned for its anti-Semitic nature.

Chapter 2: Sample Course Models
Introduction to Ethnic Studies Course Outline

The Proposed Curriculum Uses an Anti-Israel Double Standard to suggest BDS is a Liberation Movement
When explaining the concept of "liberation", the proposed curriculum legitimizes BDS by presenting it as an exemplary movement (Page 10, Lines 248-250). According to Omar Barghouti, who is widely considered the founding father of the BDS Movement, the objective is to end the Jewish nation's self-determination and sovereignty in Israel and replace it with a state in which Jews would be demographically diluted into a minority. Seeking to dispossess an indigenous nation of its self-determination in its ancestral homeland is not a liberation movement, nor does the proposed curriculum apply the suggestion to any country other than Israel.

Chapter 2: Sample Course Models
Introduction to Ethnic Studies Course Outline

The Proposed Curriculum Delegitimizes Other Social Movements by Equivocating them with BDS
Included in a list of potential social movements for teachers to review in class, BDS is equivocated with LGBTQ rights and climate change (Page 35, Lines 676-684). This ignores the widespread understanding of BDS as discriminatory and anti-Semitic in nature. The effect is to

Chapter 2: Sample
Course Models African
American Studies Course
Outline
Chapter 2: Sample Course Arab American

whitewash BDS as an indisputably legitimate organization, while inherently detracting from the legitimacy of other movements.
In fact, a recently released report called Terrorists in Suits extensively details the material connections between those that head and finance the BDS Movement and designated terrorist entities. Anti-Israel terrorist groups such as Hamas and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine were involved in the formation of BDS and continue to manage BDS activity worldwide by proxy.
The Proposed Curriculum Gives Credence to the Anti-Semitic Nation of Islam
Listed among sample topic for discussion, the curriculum mentions African American Spiritual and Religious Traditions (Page 48, Lines 969-970). One particular group highlighted is the "National of Islam" [sic], likely referring to the "Nation of Islam" (NOI). NOI is led by Louis Farrakhan, a notorious anti-Semite who has referred to Jews as "termites", called Judaism a "gutter religion", and claimed that Jews and Zionists took part in the 9/11 terrorist attacks. It is unacceptable for an organization led by such an unabashed bigot to be legitimized in the classroom.
The Proposed Curriculum Equivocates Israel with Historic American Injustices
In a section on suggested topics of discussion, the proposed curriculum makes a problematic attempt to suggest equivalence between issues faced in Israel's region and those of the United States (Page 234, Lines 4956-4958). Specifically, equivocating the situation between Palestinian-Arabs and Israel with that of the United States and AfricanAmerican citizens or immigration concerns is a false comparison aimed

Studies Course Outline
Chapter 2: Sample Course Arab American Studies Course Outline
Chapter 2: Sample Course Arab American Studies Course Outline - Somos Sur

at manipulating negative perceptions and hostility among unsuspecting audiences. The effect of this dangerous misrepresentation will be to demonize Israeli-American peers and could result in the targeting of Jewish and pro-Israel students by those with strong feelings on BLM and immigration.
The Proposed Curriculum Teaches students that Factual Integrity and Objectivity Do Not Matter
The bias of the proposed curriculum is particularly evident in its use of highly-charged language that inherently promotes a negative perception of Israel (Page 236, Line 4992; Page 237, Lines 5030-5031; Page 241, Line 5138; Page 242, Lines 5158-5161). This bias is consistent with the Palestinian-Arab "Nakba" propaganda narrative, which seeks to falsely present Palestinians as victims of forced "dispossession" rather than willing participants in a war aimed at Israel's destruction. Students deserve to receive the facts of history with integrity and objectivity intact, free from one-sided revisionism and corrupting biases. Rap Song Demonizing Israel and Zionism (Pages 264-270, Lines 5692 - 5829)
As part of the "hip-hop as Resistance" chapter in the proposed curriculum, students are exposed to a song called "Somos Sur". The chorus of this song calls for the removal of "Yankees" from Palestine, inherently suggesting that Jews are colonialist invaders. The song then continues to accuse Israel of stealing land, unjustly imprisoning people, and demolishing homes. There is no legitimate basis for such demonizing lies to be presented to impressionable students.
Furthermore, the song "Somos Sur" was written by Shadia Mansour, an extremist whose other songs deliver messages accusing Israel of

Chapter 2: Sample Course
Arab American Studies Course Outline

terrorism, demonizing the essentially Jewish concept of Zionism, accusing Zionists of territorial and cultural thievery, and calling for the defeat of Zionism. After instructing school children sing along to a propaganda song calling to "free Palestine", the lesson then tells students to create their own songs using "facts" learned from the curriculum. The glorification of this song and its writer would have the effect of demonizing and degrading Jewish and Israeli-American students and would result in a climate of fear, harassment and intimidation.
The Proposed Curriculum Glorifies Anti-Semitic Figures as Role Models
The curriculum glorifies several problematic figures as role models for children. The most concerning is Linda Sarsour (Page 235, Line 4970). Linda Sarsour has consistently expressed hatred for Jews and the State of Israel and works toward the political tolerance of such hateful views. Sarsour once even expressed support for sexual violence against a woman.
Sarsour has actively tried to delegitimize the connection between Jews and Israel. In October of 2012, Sarsour tweeted out "Nothing is creepier than Zionism". Recently, she claimed that Jesus was Palestinian, a gross example of historical delegitimization. Of course, Linda Sarsour also strongly advocates for the anti-Semitic BDS Movement while downplaying incidents of hate and violence against Jewish persons.
Regarding feminism, Sarsour has charged that Zionist-feminist women are not true feminists, in an effort to dispossessing them of their identities. Even worse, she joked about the removal of the genitals of a prominent feminist who had been the victim of FGM. Furthermore, Sarsour associates with open anti-Semites and known terrorists. Linda

Sarsour is an ally of Louis Farrakhan, and publicly embraced deported terrorist, Rasmea Odeh.
A person who embraces terrorists, stands with anti-semites, jokes about FGM, downplays anti-Semitic victimization, and support BDS discrimination is not a fit role model for California's students.

