From: Rami Preis Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 11:56 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Re: Anti-Jewish Curriculum at California Public Schools?
I sent an email to you yesterday (see below). The following information will also be missing from the new curriculum for the public schools in California.
Hamas praised the killing of another Jew today claiming that it directed it. This is not new. Hamas has always targeted Jews, launching rockets from the Gaza Strip, using suicide bombers in restaurants and buses, committing other terror attacks against Jewish civilians and the military. When a Jewish mother or Jewish children were murdered Hamas congratulated the murderers.
One Palestinian was also murdered by an Israeli gang in the last couple of years. In contrast to the Palestinians this killing was unanimously condemned by all Jewish groups and political parties. Israelis felt ashamed that such a killing could happen while Hamas and most Palestinians never condemn killing of Jews. The Palestinian Authority ALWAYS pays monthly salaries to the murderers of Jews and to their families.
Hamas not only congratulated the murderers but called today to replicate such "successful attacks".
Why does the curriculum omit the terror of Hamas? Why would California allow incitement against Jews and Israel, which is based on distortions, omissions, and lies? I expect California to fight antiSemitism not allow this old-new type of racism.
Thank you.
On Wednesday, August 7, 2019, 09:56:17 PM EDT, Rami Preis wrote:
Dear Members,
I am a shocked from the thought to include a BDS supportive curriculum full of distortions and omissions in the California public school system. The curriculum intentionally omits and distorts many of the facts about the Jewish contribution to the US and to California, and especially the fight of Jews against any type of discrimination and racism. According to the FBI latest report on violent crimes the number of anti-Semitic acts was 3 times the number of islamophobic acts. While Jews have been murdered in the last year in 3 shooting events in their houses of prayers in the US (one of them in California) or near them it is unbelievable that a movement such as BDS will be promoted in the public school system.
BDS declares its goal is to get rid of the state of Israel, the only country with Jewish identity and nationality. BDS promotes a boycott of Jews, a similar boycott to that of the Nazis in the 1930's and 40's.
Attacking Israel directly and indirectly in the educational curriculum is ill-conceived and is based on intentionally false facts. The Palestinians could have had their independent state if they desired it when

two Israeli prime ministers (Ehud Barak and Ehud Olmert) offered them 95% of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as their independent Palestine. Furthermore, prime minister Rabin's peace offers were responded with a campaign of suicide bombers against israeli civilians and the unilateral withdrawal of Israelis from the Gaza Strip (by prime minister Ariel Sharon) was followed by launching of tens of thousands of rockets against israeli civilians from the withdrawn areas. Of course, these facts are "ignored". The only conclusion is that Palestinians and their supporters want the destruction of Israel, rather than independence, but the proposed educational agenda falsifies and omits these facts. I can describe and show many other details in the proposed curriculum that are false or misleading but what was just provided should be nough to rewrite it.
When Jews are being killed and discriminated in many places in the world including the US it is inconceivable and unbelievable that the California education system will support distorted history, false information and anti-Semitic actions and goals. Why would California contribute to the incitement against Jews or Israel? California is supposed to be a leader in the fight against racism (and antiSemitism is also a form of racism).
Thank you for your attention.
A very concerned Jew (a son of 2 holocaust survivors, whose families were decimated due to similar evolving anti-Semitism in the 1930's).

