From: Gabriela Kipnis Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 2:38 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Public Comment
Hi, I'd like to respond to the proposed curriculum:
Pages: page 2 of this document, as well as pages 234, 237, 242, 256, and 264-269 of this document.
Comment
Please include lessons about American Jews as an ethnic group, including those who fled the Holocaust, oppression in the Middle East, and discrimination in the former Soviet Union. The glossary for the curriculum includes a definition of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to, "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions". It offers no critical perspectives about this campaign of hate, which seeks to end Israel's existence. 2. The sample lesson plans for the curriculum:  Encourage teachers to highlight BDS and a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine, but no voices critical of their perspectives (p. 234).  Promote a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico (p. 234).  Use unclear language that implies "Israel-Palestine" as a whole is an Arab country (p. 237).  Frame the Palestinian narrative of the 1948 War as fact, with no alternative perspectives (p. 242).  Encourage teachers to use a poem featuring harsh criticism of Israel, but no content offering a positive perspective about Israel or criticism of Palestinian leaders (p. 256, 264-269). 3. The Introduction of the proposed curriculum states that, "The implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to... enable students to develop a deep appreciation for cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism." Despite this stated goal, the curriculum does not feature a single lesson about the Jewish community, mentioning Jews only in passing. With antisemitism rising and ignorance about the Jewish people still a major problem in our society, the exclusion of Jews from this curriculum is deeply disappointing.

