From: eskandel@aol.com Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 12:44 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Your shocking proposed new curriculum
I was shocked to hear about your proposed new curriculum through the IQC that was supposed to promote ethnic studies, inclusion and diversity.
Instead it seems to find a way to not only leave out anti-semitism but actually promotes it, by including boycotting Israel(BDS) and presenting only the Palestinian side of the Palestinian Israeli conflict. That alone according to the state department is anti-Semitic. It goes further however as it includes anti-semitic slurs and stereotypes.
As a former teacher in Southern California and as a Jewish California taxpayer, I'm appalled at what you are considering for mandatory California high school students. You must ensure that there will be safeguards to prevent mandatory education that will surely inflame the already tense situation that American Jews are faced with more and more daily. Anti-Semitism is up, not just around the world but scarily in the United States as well.
Please do not add to this by fueling the flames of impressionable young minds especially on the dime of California taxpayers. It is unconscionable that you would consider doing so.
I urge you to start with safeguards that will make sure that nothing such as sinister BDS be allowed in this new curriculum, that you be on the lookout for anything that smacks of anti-Semitism, that you put both sides of Israeli-Palestinian conflict in there if it has to be in there at all. In actuality if you're going to put the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in there you must put in every other conflict in the world as well. How about the Indian Kashmir conflict, just as one of many many examples.
Since you're not going to do that my suggestion would be take that out of the curriculum. Since your goal is to promote ethnic studies, why not include the Jewish experience from perhaps around the time of the pogroms in Russia, and then on through the Holocaust, through coming to America and specifically California. You could also explore the history of anti-Semitism in the United States as well, starting in the early 1900s and onward. The quota systems in colleges, the barring of them in country clubs for instance. You could make the book Gentleman's Agreement mandatory reading . Surely their persecuted history makes them an ethnic people and a hated minority that should be included sympathetically in your new curriculum.
Your new proposed curriculum is very frightening to me. At the very least you could start with taking safeguards to prevent anti-Semitism going awry in the minds of young people. After you take that first important step I strongly urge you to meet with Jewish Educators across California to listen to ideas like mine above to make your proposed model a fair one to all ethnic peoples in California before you consider implementing your current dangerously anti-Semitic model.
Please do something about it before it is too late.
Esther Kandel Beverly Hills

