From: Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2019 5:23 PM To: Superintendent; Subject: New California Education Policy
Dear Superintendent,
I have been inundated recently with social media informing me and alarming me of a new curriculum being proposed by the California Department of Education which presents an unfair and one-sided view of the BDS (boycott, divestment, sanctions) movement against Israel. To state emphatically, I find that movement reprehensible in that its originators real intent is not to press for the rights of Palestinian/Jordanian peoples but rather for the eventual complete destruction of the State of Israel. There is plenty to criticize in any democracy ours as well as Israel. But this BDS movement should not be presented, without including a vast and complete education on Middle East history, the Holocaust, the process of Jewish displacement from all Arab countries, and ongoing and exacerbating worldwide anti-semitism. Let me know if that is to be included as well in this proposed new curriculum.
Please inform me if this curriculum, described in the article I have posted below, is true or misconstrued. It is certainly possible that the Jerusalem Post and others writing about it are getting it wrong. So please educate me more so that I can know how, or if, to continue to express my ardor.
Sincerely,
Barry Pollack Westlake Village, CA
The Jerusalem Post, August 9, 2019
An ethnic studies curriculum proposed by the California Department of Education is "inaccurate and misleading" and reflects an "anti-Jewish bias."
A law that passed in 2016 ordered the state's board of education to create a curriculum that would highlight the contributions of minorities in the development of California and the United States. The board has put the model curriculum up for public comment and is expected to approve it next year.
The draft provides sample courses in four main areas: African-American Studies, Hispanic Studies, Native American Studies and Asian American Studies. Supporters

say the goal is to create inclusive and supportive environments for children of color.
Conservatives in particular have been critical of the curriculum, although the nonpartisan Los Angeles Times also complained in an editorial that the curriculum "feels like an exercise in groupthink, designed to proselytize and inculcate more than to inform and open minds."
The newspaper also notes that the curriculum discusses activist groups like the Black Panther Party and the Palestinian-led Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement targeting Israel, but "usually offers one side and one side only."

