From: Robert Fagaly Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 8:27 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:".
I would like to comment on the draft "Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:". While I support the inclusion of Ethnic Studies as a high school graduation requirement, the draft has some serious flaws that do not support the concept of critical thinking. In particular, its treatment of economic systems. Just two examples are: 1) On lines 306 and 307 of Chapter 1: Introduction and Overview Section: "critique empire and its relationship to white supremacy, racism, patriarchy, cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, ableism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of power and oppression at the intersections of our society. This presupposes that capitalism is evil.
2) On line 87 of Chapter 2: Sample Course Models: " Some examples of systems of power are: white supremacy, capitalism, and patriarchy." Here the authors presuppose the equivalence of capitalism and white supremacy
Nowhere do I see any other economic systems singled out for criticism. If Ethic Studies are to be fair, all economic systems (e.g., mercantilism, socialism, communism--both idealized per Karl Marx and actualized per Joseph Stalin, etc.) must be compared and contrasted so as to show how economic systems truly affect ethnic studies.
Religion: I see many references to Islam and Islamophobia, but only a single reference to anti-Semitism (line 4048 in the Appendices). Other religions (Buddism, Hindu, etc.) are not mentioned. Why is only one religious belief singled out as being oppressed. Critical thinking should include how non-Islamic believers have been/are treated in predominantly Islamic communities.
These are just two areas where I see--rather than a critical thinking approach to Ethnic Studies--an attempt at ideological indoctrination.
I am opposed to the draft "Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum:" as it stands. In this document, critical thinking is not equated with careful research, logic and discernment, but with activism and politicized action. Please reject the present draft and replace it with one that has a balanced, not biased, approach to economic systems and religion.
Sincerely yours, Robert Fagaly Carlsbad, CA 92009

