From: clyde mann Sent: Saturday, August 10, 2019 2:57 PM To: CFIRD ; Tony Thurmond Subject: CFIRD Urged to Adopt Safeguards to Ensure State-Sponsored Curricula May Never Be Hijacked for Political Indoctrination Against Any Group
Dear CRIFD Personnel, Superintendent Thurmond, and
I am an elementary school teacher and a child of a holocaust survivor. Due to mass shootings and hatred spread by misinformation, do we as a state want to perpetuate the issue?
Due to concerns about the recent politicization of a proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum by its drafters for antisemitic and anti-Israel indoctrination, it's clear that it is not enough for the California Department of Education to merely mandate a re-write of the current draft's curriculum - the problem is much bigger than one curriculum. I join many others in urging you to prevent any future attempts to hijack our state's educational curricula by establishing robust safeguards capable of ensuring that the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, and all other state-sponsored curricula and instructional materials, may not be created or used as tools of political indoctrination that promote hatred and incite harm against any race, religion, group or individual. It is a totally offensive and incorrect misrepresentation to include BDS in in your state curriculum "glossary" of terms since that movement labels Israel as an "apartheid state." While the IsraeliPalestinian conflict is not without blame on both sides, the term apartheid is totally inappropriate and implies a foreign colonizer subjugating an indigenous people. The Jewish people, descendants of the exiled Israelites, have an equal and "original" right to the land, as do the Palestinian people. That right has been rejected by Arab leadership for nearly 100 years. Suggesting that the Jews are colonizers is outrageous and unfair. And, by the way, the United States House of Representatives recently overwhelming passed a resolution confirming such unfair treatment and designation of the Jewish State of Israel (by 92% majority). BDS is a hateful program aimed specifically to undermine the legitimacy and eradicate the existence of the State of Israel. Reference to BDS must not be included in our children's school curriculum.
In my comments above, I am referring to the following documents and pages in the proposed Ethnic Studies Curricula: - Glossary: Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions - Chapter 2: Pages 234, 237, 242, and 264-269
We need not mutual boycotts and hostility but rather engagement and organizing and common work and values
Thank you for your prompt attention to this crucial matter.

