From: Kathy Jordan Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 7:47 AM To: Superintendent Subject: Re: CDE - Public comment Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
To the Superintendent:
Please revise any description of capitalism in this curriculum to be factually accurate, and not based on subjective and erroneous opinions.
Capitalism is defined: "Within Ethnic Studies, scholars are often very critical of the system of capitalism as research has shown that Native people and people of color are disproportionately exploited within the system."
This is not factually accurate about capitalism, which is color blind to race. Will the curriculum produce evidence? This is a biased Marxist view to state that people are 'exploited' under capitalism, when in fact people choose to make free exchanges. If another 'of color' country employs capitalism, who would then be 'exploited?' Other people of color? Capitalism is not bound to one race.
What of the millions of people whose living conditions were improved under capitalism, many of whom were of color?
Has Socialism then been defined as repressing every citizen who has lived under it, and depressing living standards, citing the Soviet Union, China, the Eastern European satellite states, North Korea, and so forth? If not, why not?
Please drop this ethnic studies curriculum. It is interesting to imagine how the CDE can defend itself for instituting such an inaccurate curriculum to be taught to millions of students.
Thank you.
Best,
Kathy Jordan
On Sun, Aug 4, 2019, 9:33 AM Kathy Jordan wrote: To the State Superintendent of Education:
I write to vigorously object to the CDE proposal to incorporate an Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum into our California public schools.
Our CA public schools have many challenges simply educating our children to achieve academic proficiency in basic subjects, and I would like to see the CDE focus on that goal, rather than on a program that distracts and detracts from that focus. Given our students do not all achieve basic

academic proficiency, which hinders their potential in life, please place all of the CDE's focus, energy, and it's direction to its public schools on working towards that goal.
Thank you. Best,
Kathy Jordan

