From: Fred Baumann Sent: Friday, August 9, 2019 4:33 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: Ethnic Studies Curriculum
To Whom It May Concern: The proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum has a stated purpose. It seeks to make California''s public
school students more sensitive to the diverse heritages of its people and to make them more open, accepting and knowledgeable. That's the stated purpose. But it looks as though a much more sinister aim actually motivates it. Otherwise, why would the curriculum omit the Jews as an ethnic group that has contributed to the rich diversity of California's make-up? And why would the curriculum then go on to rehearse classic anti-Semitic lies directed towards the only Jewish state? Why does it treat a movement (BDS) whose stated purpose is the elimination of the Jewish state, as though it were something honorable and noble? Why does it conceal the fact that the creation of BDS's desired majority Arab state would mean in practice--if one gives any credence to the words and deeds of the leading Palestinian organizations Hamas and the PA--another genocide of Jews? And why the glaring double standards? Horrible slaughters are going on in Iraq, and Syria. Terrible repression occurs from Venezuela to Hong Kong. But your curriculum makes it seem as though Israel is the greatest evil in the whole world. Surely you know the kind of people who have told the same lies before you.
What has happened here is all too common. Idealistic progressivism has morphed into its opposite, vicious Jew-hate. The idiotic reduction of the Jewish nation state to an emblem of colonialism (idiotic if only because most Israelis are at least partly of Middle Eastern heritage not to mention the fact that Jews have lived continuously in Zion since long before the Arab imperialists showed up), has facilitated that perversion. You would not be the first group of high-minded people to lose their way, to direct their gaze towards the stars and, not paying attention to what is in front of their noses, to end up in the sewer. Here is a chance to look straight ahead of you and see the ugliness that you are about to commit in its true form. Don't waste that chance. Withdraw and redo this horrible curriculum so that it conforms to your stated purpose, not to the vicious anti-Semitic one it actually pursues. Sincerely, Fred Baumann Professor of Political Science Kenyon College Gambier, Ohio 43022

