Chapter of Model
Curriculum "General"

Your Name and Affiliation

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable)

Jennifer L. Green Private citizen

I request the removal of anti-Israel and anti-Jewish bias from the ethnic studies curriculum. Here are the specifics:
1. The Introduction of the proposed curriculum states that, "The implementation of Ethnic Studies presents an opportunity for teachers to... enable students to develop a deep appreciation for cultural diversity and inclusion, and aids in the eradication of bigotry, hate, and racism." Despite this stated goal, the curriculum does not feature a single lesson about the Jewish community, mentioning Jews only in passing. With antisemitism rising and ignorance about the Jewish people still a major problem in our society, the exclusion of Jews from this curriculum is deeply disappointing.
2. The sample lesson plans for the curriculum: - Encourage teachers to highlight BDS (the movement to boycott, divest, and sanction the state of Israel) and a pro-BDS group called Direct Action for Palestine, but no voices critical of their perspectives (p. 234). - Promote a false equivalence between Israel's efforts to stop terrorists from entering communities to murder innocent people, and U.S. policies on the border with Mexico (p. 234). - Use unclear language that implies "Israel-Palestine" as a whole is an Arab country (p. 237). - Frame the Palestinian narrative of the 1948 War as fact, with no alternative perspectives (p. 242). - Encourage teachers to use a poem featuring harsh criticism of Israel, but no content offering a positive perspective about Israel or criticism of Palestinian leaders (p. 256, 264-269).
3. A glossary for the curriculum includes a definition of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement against Israel. It claims the purpose of BDS is to, "establish freedom for Palestinians living under apartheid conditions" without any critical perspective, including that a stated goal of much of the movement is actually to end the existence of the State of Israel.

California Department of Education, June 2019

