 
 
 
September 16, 2019 
The Honorable Tony Thurmond 
California Superintendent of Public Instruction 
California Department of Education  
1430 N Street, Suite 5602 
Sacramento, CA 95814-5901 
Dear Superintendent Thurmond, 
The undersigned members of the ​Armenian American School Board Association​ strongly urge 
that the Armenian American experience be included in the proposed California Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum. 
Armenians have had a long history of immigration to the United States and experiences of 
racialization and marginalization, similar to many other immigrant communities and ethnic and 
linguistic minorities. From the early immigration of Armenians to the Central Valley as refugees of 
the genocide of the Ottoman Empire, to the emigration of Armenians from the former Soviet Union, 
the Republic of Armenia, Iran and war-torn countries such as Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq, Armenians 
make up a significant ethnic group in California. In fact, California currently has the largest 
population of Armenians in the world outside of Armenia. For this reason, it is imperative that 
Armenian American students see themselves as part of the larger California community and see 
their experiences reflected in the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.  
The Armenian-American experience in the United States has grappled with issues of refugeehood, 
erasure, immigration, and marginalization. Many Armenian American students are immigrants, 
children of immigrants and English Language Learners. They have been subjected to discriminatory 
practices and what Dr. Angela Valenzuela calls as “subtractive schooling”- assimilation through 
deculturalization. Most of us Armenian American school board members have had these same 
experiences when we ourselves were students in California public schools.  
As educators and school board members, we understand the importance of having students see 
themselves, their histories and identities reflected and affirmed in the curriculum. Also, we believe 
that it is important for all students to learn about the experiences of other racial and ethnic groups to 
build tolerance, mutual respect, and understanding. We strongly support the Model Ethnic Studies 
Curriculum but we insist that the Armenian American experience be included in a meaningful way.  
We would be glad to provide you with the names and contact information of scholars who are 
working in this field and who would be willing to help write the Armenian American portion of the 
Model Curriculum. 
We thank you in advance for your consideration.  
Sincerely, 
 
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
 
Dr. Suzie Abajian 
School Board President 
South Pasadena Unified School District 
 
Dr. Armond Aghakhanian 
School Board Vice President 
Burbank Unified School District 
 
Dr. Armina Gharpetian  
School Board Vice President 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Shant Sahakian  
School Board Clerk 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Nayiri Nahabedian 
School Board Member 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Gregory S. Krikorian 
School Board Member 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Kaitzer Puglia  
School Board Member  
La Canada Unified School District  
 
Vruyr ​(​Roy) Boulghourjian  
School Board Member 
Pasadena Unified School District  
 
Paul Naccachian 
Former School Board Member 
Azusa Unified School District  
 
 
 
 
www.armenianschoolboard.org 
Page 2 of 2 
