 
From: Deyadira Arellano   
Sent: Thursday, February 6, 2020 9:51 AM 
To: Shanine Coats  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save Ethnic Studies! Tell Arab American Stories. 
 
 
Dear Instructional Quality Commission Shanine Coats, 
 
I have worked for years to implement Ethnic Studies, which include Mexican American Studies, African 
American Studies, Native American Indigenous Studies, and that also includes Arab American Studies. I 
understand the importance for my student to take these courses before entering a university, and I 
value the material and content my student will be exposed to. I also support professional development 
for educators to be able to teach these courses well. I welcome an opportunity to be part of reviewing 
and contributing to standards for this course like I have been able to do for other courses. 
 
I’m a constituent of yours and deeply concerned with reports that Arab American Studies may be cut 
from California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), under the false premise of it not being within 
the four racialized groups of Ethnic Studies.  
 
The field’s leaders of color, including the Association of Asian American Studies, Asian American Studies 
Department Chairs, and the Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition—are insisting Arab American Studies 
belongs in the curriculum, and that it remain.  
 
As is evident in the spirit of AB2016 legislation, the California Department of Education must respect 
communities of color, and have deference to Ethnic Studies professors and practitioners of color for this 
project. 
 
Efforts to undermine or water-down any critical components of the draft, and of Ethnic Studies as a field 
must be rejected.  
 
I know you are well-aware of the targeted attacks on Arabs and Muslims by the Trump administration, 
and the demonization of the struggle of migrants and people of color throughout the United States. As a 
sanctuary state, California should continue to be a counterweight against that trend—not serve as a 
stamp of approval.  
 
Sincerely, 
Deyadira Arellano 
Irvine, CA  
United States 
 
