From: Wally Greene  
Sent: Sunday, March 22, 2020 1:52 PM 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fwd: Countering Hate Through Education 
  
 
  
 
  
                               Countering Hate Through Education 
  
    The Holocaust is not just a Jewish issue. It is a universal issue. 
We must learn from the past so that a more tolerant and just 
society  will evolve for the betterment of all humankind.  The 
wrongs  which  we seek to condemn and punish have been so 
calculated, so malignant,  and so devastating, that civilization 
cannot tolerate their being ignored, because it cannot  survive 
their being repeated. (Robert H. Jackson, Chief Prosecutor for the 
United States at the Nuremberg Trials) 
  
  
A recent study from the Conference on Material Claims Against 
Germany found that 41 percent of Americans and 66 percent of 
millennials could not identify Auschwitz. This trend is even more 
disturbing internationally. A comprehensive global study by the 
ADL  found that only 54%  of those polled said they have ever 
heard of the Holocaust, and 32 of  those 54 percent said it was 
either greatly exaggerated or had never even occurred. 
  
Those who lived through the Holocaust as well their families and 
those old enough to  remember those tragic events know full well 
the consequences of intolerance, apathy, 
and    ignorance.   Remembrance is the key to 
prevention.(Professor John J. Farmer Jr. , Director,   Eagleton 
Institute of Politics and Director, Miller Center for Community 
Protection and Resilience, Rutgers University)  Those too young 
to remember must be educated.  
  
With this vision in mind, and appreciating the critical need to 
embrace technology so that our message can impact even more 
people, we are presenting a specially produced media event to be 
broadcast and made available for live transmission all around the 
world. Participants will include an eloquent survivor who will tell 
their story like no one else can,  and other prominent personalities 
closely attached to the issue of Holocaust and 
tolerance  education. It will be viewed all across the United States 
and elsewhere around the world. It is especially suited for 
home viewing given the current limitations on group 
gatherings. Information regarding access to the broadcast in 
your time zone and area will be forthcoming. 
  
We firmly believe that this concept is a necessary response to a 
world that is increasingly ambivalent when it comes to 
understanding the realities of the Holocaust. We must not simply 
continue to educate our ‘target audiences’ but rather we need to 
innovate   and  expand our focus to ensure our messages are being 
heard. 
  
We invite you to be our partners in this effort, join us in this 
important discussion, and together we can promise a more 
informed and passionate future -- by 
remembering  and  understanding the past. Please contact me to 
sign up your group for this historic event. 
  
  
 
Dr. Wallace Greene 
 
 
