 
March 30, 2020 
 
California Department of Education 
1430 N St #5901 
Sacramento, CA 95814 
 
Re: Sikh inclusion in California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
 
To California Department of Education, Instructional Quality Commission, State Board of 
Education Officials, and California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee: 
 
On behalf of the estimated 250,000 Sikh Americans who have lived in California for 125 years, 
we write to request revisions and inclusions to California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. As 
two of the leading Sikh organizations in the country specializing in K-12 education standards 
and creating more inclusive classrooms, we have previously worked to make California’s 2016 
H-SS Framework more inclusive for Sikhism.  We look forward to working with you as well.  
 
The detailed suggested revisions and additions will make the model curriculum more robust and 
ensure that it better addresses the cultural values, traditions, indigeneity, and hxrstories of the 
diverse populations in California’s schools.  
 
We are cognizant of the following arguments in making these requests: 
 
1. While we recognize that the draft curriculum focuses on the four original ethnic studies 
areas, exceptions have been made for the inclusion of entire units and lesson plans 
about additional populations. Given that the largest Sikh population in the United States 
lives in California (approximately 250,000 with 74 Sikh houses of worship), the density of 
Sikh populations in numerous school districts (examples include Central Unified and 
Yuba City Unified, which have approximately 12% Sikh students—some of the highest 
Sikh student populations in the country), and the rising number of bias, bullying, and 
hate crimes against Sikhs in California (according to the Sikh Coalition, since 2015 no 
state has had more anti-Sikh hate crimes in the nation), it is imperative that Sikh 
Americans are included in the curriculum in a meaningful way. We propose this should 
be through a lesson plan about the Sikh American community, which can be 
easily inserted in the Asian American studies course. 
2. While we appreciate that Sikhs are mentioned in the draft curriculum, this does not 
suffice. Such minimal representation would result in further marginalization and 
misunderstanding of the Sikh community. A lesson plan would help rectify these issues: 
A. In the first instance, two examples of potential significant Sikh figures are given to 
cover in the Asian American studies course. However, without any context and 
suggested resources, it is difficult for teachers to implement this.  
 
B. In the second instance, Sikhs are included in the context of Islamophobia and 
backlash against Arab Americans post 9-11. While the inclusion of Sikh 
Americans is important in this context, only encountering certain communities 
through the lens of victimization results in the continued flattening and 
dehumanization of these communities. Given the immigration stories of Sikhs in 
California, their immensely positive contributions to the state, and their significant 
density in the K-12 student population in more than 20 school districts1, it is 
imperative that they are also included in the model curriculum in a positive way 
that highlights their unique stories and contributions in a distinct context—not in 
comparison to other communities.  
3. While we understand that there are opportunities to teach about Sikhism in California’s 
H-SS Framework, Sikh students and parents repeatedly share their dissatisfaction that 
this is not being implemented in California classrooms because it does not trickle down 
into Curriculum and Instruction or teacher training. According to the Sikh Coalition’s 
2008, 2010, and 2014 community surveys and anti-bullying reports, Sikh children 
continue to be bullied at disproportionate rates in California’s classrooms. The most 
recent 2014 report found that the majority of Sikh children, just over 50%, endure school 
bullying. And the numbers are worse for turbaned Sikh children: more than two-thirds, or 
67%, reported that they are bullied in school2. Meaningful inclusion in the model 
curriculum through a lesson plan about Sikh Americans (appropriate for Grades 9-12), 
that is both inquiry-based and consistent with the content and instructional shifts in the 
H-SS Framework, will complement the Framework and finally enable teachers to build 
on the Framework’s goals (where Sikhism is only included in Grades 4, 7, and 8).  
4. While we realize that teachers have the control to create culturally responsive and 
community relevant lessons based on the model curriculum, this is difficult to do in an 
accurate way when educators and administrators have limited time and resources. It is 
therefore essential that a lesson plan about Sikh Americans be included in the model 
curriculum from the outset, so that the Sikh community does not continue to feel 
underrepresented and misrepresented in California’s classrooms. 
 
1 Kern High School District, Panama-Buena Vista Union School District, Selma Unified School 
District, Central Unified School District, Kerman Unified School District, Clovis Unified School 
District, Fresno Unified School District, Livingston Union Elementary School District, Turlock 
Unified School District, Ceres Unified School District, Manteca Unified School District, Stockton 
Unified School District, Elk Grove Unified School District, Sacramento Unified School District, 
Yuba City Unified School District, Merced Union High School District, New Haven Unified 
School District, LA Unified School District, Irvine Unified School District, and Riverside Unified 
School District. 
 
2 "Go Home, Terrorist": A Report on the Bullying of Sikh American School Children by the Sikh 
Coalition (2014). 
 
 
5. Having communities learn about Sikh identity and culture in ethnic studies is immensely 
valuable as a mode of preparing students for the globalized world. As the fifth largest 
world religion, Sikhs are amongst the most visible of minorities that students will 
encounter, so understanding their identity and culture will equip students to engage 
meaningfully with and appreciate the diversity they will engage. 
 
It is in this vein that we are asking for the following revisions and inclusions to be made: 
 
Line 718 - Sample Theme #3 Migration  
 
Suggestion: Add the intense migration periods for South Asians from the early 
1800’s to California here as an example. 
 
Suggested text for inclusion: Students can explore South Asian immigration to 
California. The challenges and opportunities faced by South Asian immigrants to 
California will allow students to learn about socio-economic issues, identity, religion, 
culture, racism, immigration reform and legislation, and political contributions to anti-
imperial and anti-colonial movements. For example, the 1800s progressing to the 
early 20th century saw waves of workers on the Western Pacific Railroad in 1910 
and former soldiers who had served in the British colonial army in East Asia. 
Legislation such as United States vs. Bhagat Singh Thind (1923) and the US 
Immigration and Nationality Act (1965) affected South Asian immigration 
significantly. The contributions of Dalip Singh Saund to politics, opened doors for 
minority communities to rise above prejudice and racism when he became the first-
ever Asian, the first Indian, and the first Sikh to be elected to the United States 
Congress (1957-1963). The founding of Stockton Gurdwara, the first-ever Sikh place 
of worship in the United States in 1912, served as a focal point for immigrants 
across communities, and was linked to the founding of the Gadar Party, which 
opposed British rule in India.  
 
 
Line 863 - Materials and Resources for sample lesson plan on Migration Stories 
and Oral History, 9–12 
 
Suggested resources for inclusion: Add the following resources to help Sikh 
students explore their personal stories around how migration has impacted their 
families and how their migration stories connect to local history: 
● Lesson plan on Sikh immigration to Stockton, California 
● Viewing and Discussion Guide for CNN’s United Shades Of America episode 
about the Sikh community in Northern California 
● SAADA: South Asian American Digital Archive 
 
● Dalip Singh Saund: His Life, His Legacy 
 
Lines 5988-5989 - Sample lesson plan 4 on Islamophobia – What is it and how can 
it be challenged? 9–12 
 
Current text: Ask the question – Is anyone here Muslim or feels they are often 
labeled Muslim when you are not? (If anyone raises their hand, ask them to feel free 
add and comment to any content that is being presented as this lesson on 
Islamophobia – the experiences of Arab Americans in dealing with it will be 
discussed. But to not feel any pressure to represent their whole community.) 
 
Suggestion: This question should be revised. It is significantly problematic because 
the burden to defend or explain the experiences of a community should not be the 
responsibility of the student. The way in which the question is framed is also 
problematic, because it equates being labeled Muslim as something negative. 
Furthermore, this question can be emotionally triggering to students across 
communities who have encountered difficult personal experiences.  
 
Suggested text for inclusion:  
● Ask students to think about the challenges that occur when people who are 
Muslim or perceived to be Muslim are targeted with Islamaphobic sentiment.  
● Ask students to imagine that they are in a coffee shop and someone who is 
Muslim or perceived to be Muslim walks in. What are some of the negative 
stereotypes that other customers in the coffee shop might make?  
● Explore the example of AB1964, which illustrates how workplaces deal with 
this kind of discrimination in California. 
 
Lines 6051 - Sample lesson plan 4 on Islamophobia - What is it and how can it be 
challenged? 9–12 (Under teacher discussion notes)  
 
Current text: “The worst effects is the violence that is carried out against Muslims in 
which some acts lead to deaths.” 
 
Suggested edits: “The worst effect is the hate violence and murders that are carried 
out against Muslims, Arabs, Sikhs*, and other South Asians.” 
*Teacher note: The first person killed in a hate crime post 9-11 was Balbir 
Singh Sodhi, a Sikh, from Arizona. Hate crimes against Sikhs have continued 
until present time. The largest incident was on August 5, 2012 when a neo-
Nazi opened fire in a Gurdwara which led to the immediate death of six Sikhs 
and another died later as a result of his injuries.  
 
 
Line 6107 - Materials and Resources for sample lesson plan 4 on Islamophobia, – 
What is it and how can it be challenged? 9–12 
 
Suggested resources for inclusion: Add the following resources in order for 
students to engage meaningfully with the intersection of Sikh identity and 
Islamophobia post 9-11: 
● “Confused Islamophobes Target American Sikhs” Comedy Central Daily 
Show segment on Sikh identity with Trevor Noah (April 15, 2016). 5 minute 
video. 
● “Religious Groups Find Common Ground as Targets of Hate” featuring Sikh 
Coalition, by News 21 (2019). 10 minute video. 
● “Divided We Fall” by Valerie Kaur and Sharat Raju, on the Sikh experience 
following 9/11 (2008). 90 minute film; opening sequence 7 minutes. Lesson 
plans available here. 
● “Waking in Oak Creek” by Milwaukee PBS, exploring the most widely known 
hate crime committed against the Sikh community, the horrific 2012 Oak 
Creek Massacre (2014). 60 minute documentary. 
The lesson plan we are proposing for inclusion in the Asian American unit is attached. Thank you 
for your consideration. If you have any questions please reach out to the Sikh Coalition’s 
Education Director, Dr Pritpal Kaur (pritpal@sikhcoalition.org). We look forward to engaging with 
your team and seeing the ethnic studies model curriculum become more inclusive and diverse. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
Satjeet Kaur 
Executive Director 
The Sikh Coalition 
 
Naindeep Singh 
Executive Director 
Jakara Movement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment:  The Sikh-American community in California Lesson Plan 
The following lesson plan has been structured using the Sample Lesson Template for the 
California Ethnic Studies model curriculum, and is modified content from the C3 Middle/High 
School Sikh Religion Inquiry created in collaboration with Dr. Kathy Swan from C3Teachers, and 
the Sikh Coalition. It is intended for insertion into the Asian American studies course of the 
proposed Ethnic Studies model curriculum. We are willing to work with your Curriculum and 
Instruction experts to refine this content if necessary. 
Lesson Title 
The Sikh-American community in California 
Grade level(s):  
9-12 
Ethnic studies values and 
principles alignment:  
1, 2, 3 
Standards alignment: 
H-SS Framework alignment 
● Chapter 7 - Grade 4 - California: A Changing State 
● Chapter 11 - Grade 7 - World History and Geography: 
Medieval and Early Modern Times 
● Chapter 12 - Grade 8 - United States History and 
Geography: Growth and Conflict 
 
Lesson purpose and overview: 
This lesson introduces students to the history of Sikh immigration to the United States West 
Coast, patterns of settlement, and how the Sikh community has responded to the challenges 
and opportunities they have encountered in California over time. This lesson plan can be used 
at any time immigration is being discussed, but is designed to explore the history of Sikh 
contributions to California. 
Key ethnic studies terms and concepts: 
assimilation, integration, stereotype, identity, racism, religion, culture, migration, diaspora, 
farming, industry, economy 
 
 
 
Pre-requisite skills and knowledge:  
Given the often lack of accurate information about Sikhism in K-12 classrooms, this lesson 
plan has been designed to assume no or little prior knowledge about Sikhism. Students are 
expected to be familiar with the ethnic studies concepts of migration, culture, and identity. 
Content and language objectives: 
Students will be able to understand Sikh identity, Sikh migration to California, and Sikh 
contributions to California’s history through articles and videos. 
They will have opportunities to address essential and compelling questions through tasks 
such as creating lists, graphics, writing paragraphs, and conducting arguments with evidence 
from featured historical and contemporary sources. 
Essential questions: 
1. What is Sikhism? 
2. How did Sikhs immigrate to California? 
3. How did Sikhs shape Californian history? 
Lesson plans/activities: 
This lesson has been structured into 3 parts to address the 3 essential questions. It is 
expected to take 4-5 40-minute class periods, but can be adapted as necessary. 
 
1. What is Sikhism? 
The first essential question has students understanding the fundamental beliefs and practices 
of the Sikh religion. The formative performance task asks students to list the important tenets 
of Sikhism using featured sources.  
 
The featured sources for this question are two short video clips from CNN’s show United 
Shades of America with W. Kamau Bell and an informational chapter about Sikhism from the 
National Council for the Social Studies. Featured Source A is a 4 minute and 40 second clip 
featuring an introduction to Sikhism. Featured Source B is also a video clip (3 minutes 8 
seconds) on the Sikh turban. Featured Source C is a short chapter about Sikhism from the 
 
National Council for the Social Studies bulletin, Teaching About Religion in the Social Studies 
Classroom.  
 
Formative Performance Task: Make a list of the important tenets of Sikhism. 
 
 
 
2. How did Sikhs immigrate to California? 
 
 
For this question, students create a graphic that shows how Sikhs immigrated to America 
noting the contextual factors that impacted the community using featured sources.  
 
Featured Source A is another short video segment from CNN’s United Shades of America 
with W. Kamau Bell. The clip discusses farming and Sikh immigration to the United States. 
Featured Source B is a world map of Punjab, India, illustrating the route Sikhs took to the 
United States. Featured Source C is a newspaper article from The Washington Post by 
Benjamin Gottlieb (2012) entitled, Punjabi Sikh-Mexican American community fading into 
history. Featured Source D is a speech by Bruce La Brack (2011) entitled, A Century of Sikhs 
in California.  
 
Formative Performance Task: Create a graphic that shows how Sikhs immigrated to California 
noting the contextual factors that impacted the community.  
 
3. How did Sikhs shape Californian history? 
This question asks students to write a paragraph about one of the featured case studies 
focusing on how that example shaped an aspect of American history.  
 
Featured Sources A-C are case studies on the following: Dr. Narinder Singh Kapany, Dalip 
Singh Saund, and the AB1964 policy. Together, these sources focus on three unique and 
compelling stories of how the Sikh community has shaped American history.  
 
 
 
 
 
Formative Performance Task: Write a paragraph about one of the case studies and how that 
example shaped an aspect of Californian history. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summative performance task:  
Argument  
How have Sikh Americans responded to the challenges and opportunities in California? 
Construct an argument (e.g. detailed outline, poster, essay) that discusses this compelling 
question using specific claims and relevant evidence from the historical and contemporary 
sources. 
 
 
Taking informed action  
● Assessment: Examine how CNN’s United Shades of America show on the Sikh 
community in Northern California’s attempts to raise awareness about Sikhism. 
● Application: Discuss how using popular media and pop culture may shape attitudes 
towards Sikhs. 
● Action and Reflection: Determine how you might help the Sikh community with their 
campaign. 
 
Lesson modifications/accommodations for students with diverse needs: 
Teachers are encouraged to adapt the inquiries in order to meet the needs and interests of 
their particular students. Resources can also be modified as necessary to meet individualized 
education programs (IEPs) or Section 504 Plans for students with disabilities. 
Assessment, application, action and reflection: 
Integrated into lesson plan and summative performance task. 
Materials and resources: 
Sources for Essential Question 1: Source A: Video, United Shades of America, W. Kamau 
Bell, Introduction to Sikhism segment, Source B: Video, United Shades of America, W. 
Kamau Bell, Sikh turban segment, Source C: Chapter about Sikhism from NCSS publication.  
 
Sources for Essential Question 2: Source A: Video, United Shades of America, W. Kamau 
Bell, Farming and immigration segment, Source B: World Map of the Punjab and route to 
United States, Source C: Article, Punjabi Sikh-Mexican American community fading into 
history (2012) by Benjamin Gottlieb, Source D: Speech, A Century of Sikhs in California 
(2011) by Bruce La Brack. 
 
Sources for Essential Question 3: Source A: Case Study, Dr. Narinder Singh Kapany, 
Source B: Case Study, Dalip Singh Saund, Source C: Case Study, AB1964 policy.  
 
