From: Raveena Rihal 
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 1:54 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
  
Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  
 
I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  
 
My name is Raveena Kaur Rihal and I have been a resident of California since 2009.  I 
live in San Francisco and am a physician and community activist. I have two children 
who attend preschool and 2nd grade here in SF.   
 
 Currently, I have not encountered any curriculum about Sikhism in our school. My husband and 
I make it a point to visit classrooms and make presentations about Sikhism. It would be so 
powerful and supportive if the teaching was coming from the district/school. Sikh boys, like 
mine, standout and are often targets of bullying and hate crimes, and I sincerely believe that 
education about Sikhs and the important role they have played in Californiaś history would help 
mitigate these issue.  
  
I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  
 
There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   
  
Specifically, I request:  
1. A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 
the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 
2. More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  
 
The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Raveena Kaur Rihal 
 
 
--  
Raveena Rihal, MD 
 
