Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  
Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
Your Name and Affiliation 
Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 
Chapter two in 
proposed 
Ethnic Studies 
Model 
Curriculum, 
lines 4920-
6195) 
JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to 
the Middle East and North 
Africa, San Francisco 
 
 
 
To the Instructional Quality Commission and the California Board of 
Education: 
 
We are writing to you on behalf of JIMENA, a San Francisco based organization 
that is committed to advancing the interests and heritage of Middle Eastern and 
North African Jews – also known as Sephardic and Mizrahi Jews. On August 15, 
2019, JIMENA in partnership with eleven Mizrahi and Sephardic Jewish 
communal organizations in California submitted our feedback regarding the 
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, in addition to a lesson plan titled, “Around the 
Middle Eastern Jewish World.” To reiterate, our community strongly supports AB 
2016 and we firmly believe that now, more than ever, our students need rigorous 
educational opportunities to study issues of race and ethnicity.  
 
We are very proud to present a new lesson plan, “Antisemitism and Middle 
Eastern-American Jews,” which was written specifically to fit into California’s 
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. JIMENA represents multiple Middle Eastern 
refugees, immigrants, and Jews of Color who comprise one of the largest Middle 
Eastern ethnic groups in California. The inclusion of Middle Eastern-American 
Jews, will greatly enrich the curriculum by adding important educational content 
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 
Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
Your Name and Affiliation 
Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 
on antisemitism and Middle-Eastern American experience. It is our strongest 
hope that the Arab American Studies Section can be expanded to include 
diverse Middle Eastern experiences. Our inclusion ensures that the Jewish 
community is represented, as well as the Arab communities who continue 
advocating for their important inclusion.  
 
We request: 
 
1) That the “Arab American Studies” course section be renamed to “Middle 
Eastern-American Studies” 
2) That the IQC and State Board of Education include the lesson plan, 
“Antisemitism and the Middle Eastern-American Jews” 
 
Thank you,  
Sarah Levin, Executive Director 
Gina Bublil-Waldman, President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
California Department of Education, June 2019 
