From: Julia Griffin Thomason  
Sent: Thursday, July 16, 2020 7:42 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public Comment in support of the CA Model Ethnic Studies Curriculum 
  
To Whom It May Concern:  
 
My name is Julia Thomason and I am a rising junior at a college in California. I am in full support 
of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, particularly including Arab American studies.  
 
I believe, particularly, that it is crucial to include curriculum about Palestine, and want to 
reiterate why such curriculum would be in no way antisemitic. I think it is hugely important to 
educate students about antisemitism and about Jewish American history, which is content I 
believe is fully and adequately covered in the CA standard curriculum. In order to uplift the 
history of people of color who have been largely ignored by the current curriculum, which is the 
stated purpose of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, it is necessary and just to include 
curriculum about Arab-Americans. Teaching about the Arab-American experience, one that 
began prior to the forming of the United States, is not antisemitic but rather provides a more 
true telling of history than what students are being taught now. 
 
The claim of antisemitism from Pro-Israel and Zionist organizations is being weaponized 
particularly to exclude discussions of Palestine that do not support Zionism or the state of 
Israel.  A good curriculum should provide multiple perspectives of history, and a curriculum that 
neglects to teach diverse perspectives on how Israel treats Palestinians does a disservice to all 
students in California. Teaching about the history of Palestine, including 
the Nakba (catastrophe), which refers to the forced displacement of over 700,000 Palestinians 
that started before the establishment of Israel in 1948 and continues to the present day, is not 
antisemitic and is essential to understand the history of forced immigration of Palestinians to 
the United States and across the world. The occupation of Palestine is a human rights issue. 
Palestinians are cut off from adequate food, water, shelter, healthcare, education, and other 
basic human needs and are forcefully removed from their land by Israeli troops. This year alone, 
11 Palestinians have been killed as a result of Israel’s extrajudicial shoot-to-kill policy.  It is not 
antisemitic to defend human rights, and therefore should not be considered antisemitic, but 
rather essential, to include Palestinian history and current movements in ethnic studies.  
 
As racism, Islamophobia, antisemitism, and xenophobia in the United States continue to rise, 
we must confront these showings of white supremacy. My public school education left me with 
huge blindspots and skewed understandings of history, particularly in regards to Palestine and 
the West Asian American experience. We must do better for the next generation. To achieve 
this goal, I believe it is crucial to include Arab American studies in the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum and I demand for any revisions that might affect Arab American studies to be made 
in collaboration with Arab American scholars and Ethnic Studies practitioners.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
Julia Thomason 
 
