 
 
 
July 21, 2020 
California State Board of Education 
California Department of Education  
1430 N Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814-5901 
 
Dear President Dr. Darling Hammond and State Board of Education Members,  
 
The undersigned members of the Armenian American School Board Association 
strongly urge the CDE to hear the voices of Armenian American Californians and reflect 
our histories and experiences in California public education.  
 
We write to you today firmly in support of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, the calls 
of Asian American scholars to include West Asian American Studies, and the inclusion 
of Armenian-Americans within that curriculum.  
 
Armenians have had a long history of immigration to the United States and experiences 
of racialization and marginalization, similar to many other immigrant communities and 
ethnic and linguistic minorities. From the early immigration of Armenians to the Central 
Valley as refugees of the genocide of the Ottoman Empire, to the emigration of 
Armenians from the former Soviet Union, the Republic of Armenia, Iran and war-torn 
countries such as Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq, Armenians make up a significant ethnic 
group in California. In fact, Scholars estimate that Armenian-Americans represent up to 
500,000 people in California, with the greatest population of Armenians outside of 
Armenia residing in California. 
 
For this reason, it is imperative that Armenian American students see themselves as 
part of the larger California community and see their experiences reflected in the 
California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.  
 
The Armenian-American experience in the United States has grappled with issues of 
refugeehood, erasure, immigration, and marginalization. Many Armenian American 
students are immigrants, children of immigrants and English Language Learners. They 
have been subjected to discriminatory practices and what Dr. Angela Valenzuela calls 
“subtractive schooling”- assimilation through deculturalization. Most of us Armenian 
American school board members have had these same experiences when we ourselves 
were students in California public schools.  
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
 
As educators and school board members, we understand the importance of having 
students see themselves, their histories and identities reflected and affirmed in the 
curriculum. Also, we believe that it is important for all students to learn about the 
experiences of other racial and ethnic groups to build tolerance, mutual respect, and 
understanding. We strongly support the Model Ethnic Studies Curriculum but we insist 
that the Armenian American experience be included in a meaningful way within the 
West Asian American Studies category. 
 
We would be glad to provide you with the names and contact information of scholars 
who are working in this field and who would be willing to help write the Armenian 
American portion of the Model Curriculum. 
 
Don’t cut us out. We urge you to hear community voices calling for the inclusion of West 
Asian American experiences within Ethnic Studies, and the necessity of 
Armenian-American histories within that experience.  
 
We thank you in advance for your consideration.  
Sincerely, 
 
Dr. Suzie Abajian 
School Board Member 
South Pasadena Unified School District 
 
Dr. Armond Aghakhanian 
School Board President 
Burbank Unified School District 
 
Dr. Armina Gharpetian  
School Board President 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Shant Sahakian  
School Board Vice President 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Nayiri Nahabedian 
School Board Member 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
Gregory S. Krikorian 
School Board Member 
Glendale Unified School District 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
 
Kaitzer Puglia  
School Board Member  
La Canada Unified School District  
 
Vruyr ​(​Roy) Boulghourjian  
School Board Member 
Pasadena Unified School District  
 
Paul Naccachian 
Former School Board Member 
Azusa Unified School District  
 
 
 
 
www.armenianschoolboard.org 
Page 3 of 3 
