From: Comcast  
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 11:09 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Anti semitism 
  
 
Recently it was reported California is pushing some kind of ethnic education policies. This should be your policy: 
discrimination against any ethnic person will not be tolerated. Anti Italian,  anti French, anti Irish, anti Muslim, anti 
German, anti black - none of this is acceptable. Likewise there should be no anti 
Catholic, anti evangelical Protestants, anti Sikh, anti Buddhist, anti Islam, and anti Jewish. 
Educate your children by having social skills classes on how to be kind and how to 
embrace each other’s differences.  
It appears your ethnic studies is the beginning of an effort to demonize Israel and Jews. It also appears to be 
supported by activists who are pro BDS and anti Israel. From reports,  the push to highlight and promote pro 
Palestinian propagandists like Linda Sarsour And pro Palestinian agendas like BDS is frankly despicable and 
shameful.  Please educate yourselves in where the money to push this ethnic Education is coming from. If you are 
planning to educate American children about the Middle East, you may want to start with 50 Muslim countries, 
that all expelled Jews in the past 100 years, And 1 little tiny country that is 
blamed for everything that is wrong with the world Except allowing Jews to come to their country.  
Let’s educate our children in how our government works and it’s true history including the slave trade, the heinous 
treatment of blacks and native Americans, and it’s amalgam of cultures we should all embrace. The United States 
needs to unify, not divide. Educate where people came from and value our heritages. Do not include propaganda 
that is pro Palestinian and anti Israel. Question why people want to push that agenda. Why is it always little tiny 
Israel that is constantly harassed?  Why is it always the Jews who are bad?  This is what extremists do- put false 
info into school books As facts. Follow the money behind this change in curriculum. You will not find any Jewish 
organizations supporting it  
 
