September 17, 2019
Instructional Quality Commission (IQC)
California Department of Education
1430 N Street
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission:
I am chair of Asian American Studies at San Francisco State University, the oldest and largest such
program in the nation.
I respectfully request that you adopt the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum as
drafted by it advisory committee. Along with other directors and chairs of Asian American Studies
programs through APIs for Ethnic Studies, we have actively participated and commented on the writing
of this curriculum, and firmly believe that it follows the intent of AB 2016 “to ensure quality courses of
study in ethnic studies.”
For the past fifty years, SF State Asian American Studies has developed quality courses of ethnic studies
that 1) center the contributions of people of color to highlight our resistance to racism and other forms
of oppression; 2) give voice to the arts and culture of our ethnic groups and enhance students’ cross-
cultural communication skills; 3) address the cross-cutting issues facing racialized communities to make
positive social change. In becoming elected officials, artists and writers, teachers and health
professionals, our alumni have contributed greatly to our state’s development.
Given our depth and breadth of expertise, we assert that the current model curriculum accomplishes
what its enacting legislation set out to do. It provides a “standards-based” curriculum that is
accountable and relevant to the significant Asian American population in California. The curriculum is
guided by “core values of equity, inclusiveness, and universally high expectations.” In particular, it helps
students’ develop critical thinking skills to fight for greater democracy and promote empathy to
understand the Asian American experience. Finally, it “reflects the pupil demographics” of California.
Asian and Filipino students comprise 11.7% of the state’s student population, but only 7.3% of the
teachers are Asian and Filipino. This curriculum helps to meet the gap by providing curricular lessons
and models for our students.
I encourage you to accept the curriculum already drafted by the committee made up of experts. It is
inclusive, evidence-based, high-impact curriculum that will serve our students well.
Sincerely,
Russell Jeung, Ph
Chair, Asian American Studies
San Francisco State University
