 
September 18, 2019 
 
TO: 
Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Executive Director 
Instructional Quality Commission 
 
FROM: 
E. Toby Boyd, President 
California Teachers Association 
 
RE: 
Draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
 
 
Thank you for giving the California Teachers Association (CTA) the opportunity to submit 
comments on the 2019 draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. CTA recognizes that 
this is a historic opportunity for the students of California. We appreciate the work of the 
educators who served on the advisory committee, as well as the coordination and 
direction of the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) and the Superintendent of Public 
Instruction. CTA believes that within this work, the integrity of an Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum must be maintained; the outlined process of review and feedback should be 
allowed to continue; and members of the advisory committee must be included for their 
input in the revision of the draft.  
CTA brought together a subcommittee of educators who serve on our Curriculum and 
Instruction Committee and our Civil Rights in Education Committee to review the initial 
draft. Thanks to the meticulous and studious work of this subcommittee, CTA provides the 
following comments to the IQC to help frame and inform the next draft.  
Overall, the subcommittee felt that the first draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
was a good start to provide the necessary focus and tools for teachers to use the model 
curriculum as a guide in developing and integrating what is needed to provide a multi-
dimension approach to the history of marginalized and under-represented ethnic groups 
in American history. There are many good components of the draft, and we feel that it 
represented what was outlined in AB 2016 and Ed Code Section 51226.7. Specifically, as 
stated in the Ed Code, the draft curriculum offered consideration for providing Ethnic 
Studies as a stand-alone course or an integrated course that includes other subjects. 
Throughout the model curriculum, the draft provided resources that teachers could use in 
developing their own curricular focus tailored to their school community, histories and 
student population. Chapter 3 included sample course outlines that included individually 
developed outlines and one that met the University of California A-G requirements.  
The subcommittee focused heavily on Chapter 1 of the draft curriculum because educators 
felt the introduction and overview lay the foundation for the focus of a model curriculum. 
By framing the context and the “why” for teaching and including Ethnic Studies in the 
development of their curriculum, teachers are enhancing the education outcomes not only 
for students of color, but for all students. The history of Ethnic Studies is important so that 
people can understand why this course is a necessity. It is, therefore, most important that 
the introduction of this chapter explains the purpose for the model curriculum. The 
explanation for the model curriculum on pages 11-12, lines 254-286 should be at the very 
beginning of Chapter 1 as part of the introduction.  
 
Page 2 
The alignment of the model curriculum to other curriculum and frameworks developed by the California 
Department of Education (CDE) is also important to state within the model curriculum. Although it might 
have been more challenging to align a curriculum with dual purposes – a stand-alone and an integrated one 
– the use of the other CDE-adopted frameworks as a template might be helpful for teachers since they have 
already been introduced to other frameworks in ELA/ELD, Math, and History-Social Science. Each of these 
frameworks has a chapter on Access and Equity, which is noticeably absent in the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum. The legal requirements under the Fair Act should also be explained so that the contributions of 
the LBGTQ ethnic minority community is not lost. To add to its utilization, the subcommittee also wondered 
about adding a bilingual/biliteracy component.  
While some of the content in the draft followed more of a higher education syllabus approach and/or was 
research oriented, other parts of the framework seemed simplistic or not well thought out. We also 
recognize the time frame the advisory committee had to work with and that three, two-day meetings is not 
adequate time to fully develop in-depth work on all ethnic groups and their histories. We hope to see some 
sections like the Native American section include deeper content on the history of indigenous peoples of 
America. This should also include Alaskan Natives and Pacific Islanders. Similarly, the section on Asian 
American Studies does not represent the diversity of the Asian race and the many issues affecting the 
immigration of Asian groups to this country.  
Formatting and consistency are other areas that the subcommittee noted. While we understand the final 
product will look much different than the draft, the subcommittee noted that the use and explanation of 
the “X” should be explained at the very beginning of the model curriculum if it is going to be used 
consistently throughout the guide. Some educators were confused by its usage early in the guide without 
the background explanation found on page 77. Additionally, the subcommittee wondered whether the “X” 
needed to be used throughout the entire document or only in the Chicana/o/x or Latina/o/x Studies Course 
Outline. Call-out boxes have been used in other frameworks to demonstrate a key concept or idea. It might 
also be helpful to have an Ethnic Studies practitioner talk about how to connect subject-matter content like 
American literature or science with Ethnic Studies. As the subcommittee members are all practitioners, 
they look for a guide that is practical and easy to use. They suggest that topics and main headings be 
highlighted so that the eyes can quickly focus on the content that they seek.  
Finally, the following is an annotated list of recommended changes by page and line number for chapters 1 
and 2:  
 
 
Page 3 
 
Input from the California Teachers Association on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum May 2019 Draft 
Chapter 
Page 
Line(s) 
Comments/Recommendations 
1 
2 
28-30 
Add anti-Semitism. Delete “Native Peoples and people of color.” Add 
“experiences of all people.” 
1 
3 
73-74 
Change “delete” to “all”. Put a period after “students” and delete “of color 
and white students.” 
1 
3 
77 
Run-on sentence. Put a period after “Studies.” 
1 
10 
223-224 
Add Economics, Government or Civics, Sociology, and Psychology. 
1 
11 
253 
The section about the Model Curriculum and how it came to be should be at 
the very beginning of this draft as the Introduction explaining the “why” of 
this model curriculum. 
1 
13 
299-300 
Put a period after “participants.” Delete “especially Native Peoples and 
people of color.” 
1 
16 
387-390 
Adding sensitivity training is key, but how will educators get this training or 
even resources to support this work?  
1 
16 
389 
Add “sensitivity” before “training.” 
1 
17 
412 
Add a new sentence: To begin the cycle of inquiry, units should begin with 
an activity that activates schema. An easy activity might start with a “quick 
write” such as completing a sentence stem.  
1 
17 
418 
Add a sentence after the word “content.” “Another approach is to 
encourage using a project-based learning model where students can explore 
interdisciplinary content. 
1 
18-19 
431, 441-
442, and 
460 
The key concepts noted in these lines should be bolded or underlined to call 
attention to these areas: citizenship, community engagement/ action 
project, and intersectionality. 
1 
19 
469 
Add after “Stressing Literacy”, “and the Use of 21st Century Literacy.”  
1 
22-23 
531 and 
560 
Flip the two titles. Start first with “Guidance and Support” for effective 
preparation and then “In-Class Community Building. 
1 
22 
546 
Start the line with “21st century…”  
1 
22 
549 
Add new sentence: Adding the Ethnic Studies dimensions makes it relevant 
for all students.  
1 
22 
550 
Add a statement prefacing that these activities need to relate to the 
relevancy of the activity or experience to promote reflection or self-
discovery. 
1 
22 
557 
Insert after “can give”, “ELL and LTELL” students. 
2 
1 
18-25 
Rather than separate out Pacific Islanders and Arab Americans into different 
sections, they should be included in the core group of Asian Americans. 
 
Page 4 
Chapter 
Page 
Line(s) 
Comments/Recommendations 
2 
Starting 
with 
pg. 154 
3123 
This model/sample lesson needs some background building and literacy 
strategies.  
2 
2-3 
56-57 
Add before “Themes”, “Project based learning is way to introduce themes 
that also allows students…” 
2 
155 
3161-
3170 
Build out the vocabulary section with suggested literacy strategies. Add a 
component on how to build out the vocabulary for Els. 
2 
156 
3171-
3174 
Provide a structured lesson/strategy that encourages deeper academic 
discussion. Possible structure could be a jigsaw or philosophical chairs. 
2 
160 
3282-
3286 
Add as a culminating assessment, students could write their own protest 
song or identify songs not on the list for analysis. Include suggested 
accommodations and modifications for Special Needs and EL students. 
2 
166 
3449 
Add assessment of learn suggestions for accommodations and modifications 
for Special Needs and EL students. The level of reading may also include 
ways to scaffold the reading for students who are struggling readers.  
2 
169-
170 
3478-
3514 
This worksheet needs to be more specific. Is it to be used for analysis and 
evident collection or is it part of the assessment process?  
2 
175-76 
3640 
Be more specific. State the final assessment has students wring a letter 
writing following the Socratic seminar discussion. Refresh the student’s 
members that the assignment includes the ELA standards page 171, line 
3522 and include Writing standards, W.9-10.4 and W.9-10.9 
Thank you for your consideration of CTA’s comments. Just as the Civil Rights Movement started with specific 
goals in mind, it morphed and expanded to embrace many. When advances are made for one group, it shines 
the light on other inequities. This too may be the challenge and evolution of an Ethnic Studies curriculum. CTA 
members look forward to reviewing and commenting on a revised future draft of the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum. 
 
TB:MF/sb 
