CDE NOTE: The CDE received over 3,000 copies of this email to the 
Instructional Quality Commission inbox. 
From: Ara Abrahamian  
Sent: Tuesday, September 24, 2019 9:01 AM 
To: IQC  
Subject: Inclusion of the Armenian Experience in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Ara Abrahamian 
Glendale, CA  
September 24, 2019 
Dear Linda Darling-Hammond, 
I am writing to encourage you to include the Armenian Experience in the Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum.  
Armenian Americans have been an integral part of our great state for over a century, 
making immense contributions to our society. Last year we celebrated 400th 
anniversary since the arrival of first Armenian to America.  
California is home to over one and a half million Armenians, making up the largest 
organized Diaspora community in the entire world. It is of paramount importance to me 
and hundreds of thousands of our community members that California students get to 
learn about the rich history and culture of our people that have enriched the diverse 
mosaic of America. California high school students deserve an opportunity to learn the 
role of ethnicity, race, and religion in the life of all its citizens, including and especially 
those previously ignored. 
As you might well know, ever since the Armenian Genocide, Armenians have had to 
flee their historic homeland. Our ancestors had to go to places where they were 
accepted and treated equally and well. This is the reason why California has the largest 
Armenian population outside of Armenia - because of all the opportunity, freedom, and 
equality. The current model curriculum does not do justice to the Armenian Americans 
and other minorities living in the state. Therefore, I urge you to adopt a new and revised 
model curriculum which will be inclusive to all Californians and for California to continue 
its long history and tradition of being a model state for others to follow. 
Thank you for your consideration of this important request. 
For more information and further assistance with providing with materials and expertise 
to include the Armenian Americans, please feel free to contact the Armenian National 
Committee of America - Western Region at (818) 500-1918 or info@anca.org. The 
organizations&#039; Education Committee is ready to assist with anything necessary to 
ensure that our community is also included in the final version of the model curriculum. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
Ara Abrahamian 
 
