Additional Comments relating to the proposed CA Curriculum for Ethnic Studies.  
9/2/2019    Ginny Atherton 
 
“If only everyone could travel throughout the United States, visiting 
communities large and small, rural and urban, getting even a little familiar with 
the people living and working everyday lives, there would be more appreciation 
of our vast diversity.”  Paraphrased from a heartfelt proclamation after a Labor 
Day supper by former California Boys Choir “tourister” (choir boy on multiple 
cross-country tours for CAMI in the 80s) having just returned from a vacation road 
trip with spouse who was surprised and enchanted by the geographic and 
geopolitical diversity they encountered along the trip.  Esteban Felix, Sept 1, 2019 
 
“If I could put you all in a bus and take you throughout the nation as we learned 
the history and geography of our country…I would.” Remembered from 8th grade 
history class at Chittenango, NY, teacher Alvin Gehrke, imagining the best way to 
teach and learn Social Studies. Fall, 1955 
 
“I’d love to return to each of the towns we visited and see them with their 
Christmas lights” declared eleven-year old chorister, David Atherton, after his first 
10-week CBC tour, November 1982, as he finished displaying his tschokes on the 
hearth.  
 
“Pick a country about which you know the least and find out as much as you 
can.” Economic Geography assignment for 9th graders at Chittenango HS (Alvin 
Gehrke, teacher). Energized to discovery, a student found Bolivia intriguing for its 
colorful and exotic postage stamps and full of potential for “primary source” 
research via correspondence with distant, unmet, relatives who were serving as 
missionaries in the headwaters of the Amazon in Bolivia. 1956.  
 
Less than a decade later, when prompted to select 1st, 2nd and 3rd choices for 
assignment with the still new Peace Corps, Bolivia floated to the top of the 
list…with the expressed hope for the assignment to be related to symphony 
orchestra work. The stars aligned; the Bolivians requested assistance with 
developing the Orquesta Sinfonica Nacional and those dreams of a social studies 
teacher were fulfilled for at least one student. 
One of the three goals of Peace Corps service is for the volunteer to return to the 
US with insights that will inform her community interactions henceforth…to bring 
the world home. 
 
Now, as Otherness dominates public policy and incites public violence, educators 
rightly and sometimes, righteously, toil to create curricula to stem nastiness bred 
of ignorance.  
 
In California, groups, communities, most vulnerable to being Othered by folks 
grasping power, advocate Ethnic Studies from an equally self-centered 
perspective.  
 
Self-awareness, cultivation and exposure of each community’s journey is, of 
course, essential to displaying the quilt that we are. Some of the patches in the 
quilt are of vintage fabric: former newcomers, who might be understood as both 
models and caveats to whoever arrives next.  
 
That no community is a monolith might be understood as an “Enduring 
Understanding.” Stereotypes work both ways, to aid in identifying contributions as 
well as conflicts, and to entrench old misunderstandings. 
 
Communities are increasingly complex, with overlapping identities and subgroups. 
Depending upon isolation or inclusion by design or by circumstance, individuals 
may form impressions and opinions limited by those parameters. Ignorance and 
lack of curiosity prevent expanded or generous social patterns. 
 
In some curricular proposals, inquiry of the stranger is considered rude or even a 
microaggression.  
 
Fear of offending, fear of being offended guide our conversations to the point of 
shutting down conversation…of sanitizing interaction.  
 
Similarly, diverse political views, diverse religious traditions, unfamiliar food and 
music, partition our communities, holding the Other at arm’s or block’s length.  
 
“He’s from the Other Side of the Tracks.” That almost jokingly delivered 
description of anOther ‘s abode while I was growing up in 1940s Haddonfield, NJ,  
a town with blue laws and restrictions on which religions could build a house of 
worship within town boundaries, to a child meant only a physical fact of tracks 
which needed care to be crossed, the train being the only danger and the nuance 
that somehow, the “other side” was less desirable, and thus also were those who 
lived there. This child thought it meant merely less money. The adults knew it was 
the law, excluding certain folks from a particular residential area. On reflection, 
odd, as the town was founded by Quakers, a generous humanitarian sect critical to 
the success of the Underground Railway. Prohibiting Roman Catholic churches 
from owning property and building within the town limits and thus creating 
parishes certainly made it unattractive for newcomers from Catholic countries to 
settle in the town.  
 
The history of exclusion, Otherness, inclusion, resistance and activists within all 
communities, might be a tent within which to examine the tensions and successes 
of previous generations as well as to address the realities of the current 
generation of newcomers.  
 
Some newcomer communities are almost invisible to the majority populations. 
Vietnamese immigrants have stories painful, irrevocable and mostly unknown by 
other communities. Many Jewish families didn’t learn their own grandparents’ 
heartbreak and struggles, as it was too painful for the survivors to share.  
 
To gain insights and stimulate discussion, a few noteworthy books are  
Maus and Meta Maus by Art Spiegelman (2011), 
They Called Us Enemy by George Takei (2019) 
 
Our Kind of People by Lawrence Otis Graham (1999) 
Nigger by Randall Kennedy (2002) 
 
White Trash by Matt Wray and Annalee Newitz (1997) 
Prisoners of Hate by Aaron T. Beck, M.D. (1999) 
 
Consider the homeless, particularly, but not only, the river dwellers, in the  
Ballad of Huck and Miguel by Time DeRoche (2018) 
 
Interviews are an effective conversation starter. Students at various ages might be 
encouraged to ask, in their own age-appropriate ways, “Grandma, tell me a story 
about….” Or “Uncle, what was your first job like?”  Or, “Did you have a friend 
who…?”  The possibilities are endless. 
 
As a teacher in a re-configured middle school in Pasadena, in order to teach two 
periods of band and orchestra, I was assigned another 3 periods of English, social 
studies and health…with no text books, no curricular support and a credential to 
teach Music K-14! The students were mostly from ethnic communities of well-
established African-American families, newly arrived Vietnamese boat refugees 
who had eaten cockroaches and other bugs en route to safety and Armenian 
refugees who had endured cellar living in Lebanon while surviving on PB&J (a 
staple in USDA food gifts to the hungry). 
 
Three varieties of English, with determined English learners and (often) non-
standard local dialect native speakers mixed, no way or reason to standardize 
grammar or reading, so what to do? Interviews in their own families and 
neighborhoods produced beautifully insightful and generous sharing of their 
“stories.” Each student received a final copy of the collection (typed by a friend  
to make all of them readable) and we placed one copy in the school library.  
 
Thus, honoring the struggles and realities of all students in each classroom 
combined with a very broad view of the history of The Other in America, can 
illuminate understanding and ignite compassionate curiosity throughout the next 
generation.  
 
There will always (I hope) be newcomers. How very exciting and enriching for 
them and for us.  
 
Students need to look outward as well as inward within the ambitions of an Ethnic 
Studies Curriculum. We do, each of us, have ethnic markers, blended identities and 
a compelling mission to build community. 
 
In harmony,  
    Rarely static, usually a “progression,” 
 
Ginny Atherton 
 
