Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 
Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 4 
Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
Your Name and Affiliation 
Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 3 of 4 
General 
Caleb Astrof, YULA Boys 
High School, Los Angeles 
I am writing to express my concern regarding the current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
heading to the State Board of Education for review. I believe that the Model Curriculum discourages 
critical thought about the Jewish community, of which I am a part, and about the State of Israel, which I 
support. 
 
The Curriculum addresses the historical importance of “African Americans, Asian Americans and Pacific 
Islanders, Chicana/o/x/, Latina/o/x, and Native Americans” (Chapter 1, page 4, lines 87–88). I commend 
the Board of Education for casting a spotlight on historically overlooked groups of Americans. I note, 
however, the conspicuous absence of American Jews from the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. As the 
Curriculum notes, the ethnic studies movement of the late 1960s called for “a new curriculum that would 
embrace the history of all people, including ethnic minorities” (Chapter 1, page 4, lines 99–100). I, a 
Jewish student, believe that all students in California stand to benefit from learning about Jews’ historical 
experiences in the United States alongside the experiences of other minorities. 
 
Curricula designed for California public schools should be nonpartisan and nonsectarian. I find that the 
current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum inappropriately takes positions on a number of 
sensitive historical and current issues. As drafted, the Curriculum precludes students from studying 
multiple perspectives, engaging in critical thinking, and developing nuanced and well-informed opinions. 
 
I expect that the Arab American Studies Course will be taught without political bias. But the sample topics 
of the “Call to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction Israel” (Chapter 2, page 234, line 4957) and of “Comparative 
Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico” (Chapter 2, page 234, line 4958) are clearly oriented toward 
presenting a particular viewpoint and precluding student dispute and debate. The terms the Curriculum 
advises teachers to use when discussing these sensitive topics introduce bias and do not give students the 
opportunity to form their own educated opinions. The Curriculum refers to the “1948 Palestine War” 
(Chapter 2, page 242, lines 5160–5161) and calls Palestinian displacement the “Nakba,” without any 
qualifiers (Chapter 2, page 242, line 5159). These terms, and others like them, are loaded signifiers, not 
neutral historical terms. They should be contextualized and presented within a nuanced and multi-
perspective educational framework that enables students to develop their own voices and ideas.  
 
According to the Curriculum, Palestinians are stereotyped as “terrorists, blow up airlines, try to ‘destroy 
Israel’ and ‘drive the Jews into the sea’ ” (Chapter 2, page 259, lines 5561–5562). Surely these stereotypes 
exist. But the Curriculum fully ignores the history of violence of particular Palestinian individuals and 
subgroups, including actual calls to “destroy Israel” and to “drive the Jews into the sea.” Acts of terror 
committed by Palestinians are entirely ignored in the curriculum. Leaving out the individual acts of terror 
keeps the Curriculum from acknowledging Palestinians and other Arab leaders who have condemned 
terrorist attacks, terrorists’ tactics, and terrorist groups. The current draft of the Curriculum promotes an 
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 4 of 4 
Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
Your Name and Affiliation 
Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 
overly simplistic perspective, which will prevent students from learning to contextualize these 
stereotypes while thinking critically about the situation. 
 
The Curriculum encourages students to study the BDS Movement (Chapter 2, page 234, line 4957), a 
movement that does not recognize or honor Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state. BDS is an extremist 
movement. BDS should be taught, but it should be contextualized alongside moderate pro-Palestinian 
organizations that recognize Israel’s right to be treated like every other state in the world.  
 
As a high school student, I believe the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum merits further discussion before 
its final release. I believe the addition of an American Jewish Studies Course to the Curriculum will allow 
students to learn about Jews’ historical contribution to the United States. It will also help students 
understand the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the context of both many American Jews’ and many Arab 
Americans’ emotional connections to the conflict. In addition, an American Jewish Studies Course would 
give students the opportunity to study anti-Semitism. Given that anti-Semitic hate crimes rose 21 percent 
last year, according to a Department of Justice report released early last month, critical study of American 
Jewry and biases against it has perhaps never been more important. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of my concerns and for your work on behalf of the students of the State 
of California. 
California Department of Education, June 2019 
