1. Our first recommendation is for Chapter 14, p.425, line 648, to explicitly include four core concepts 
and academic language of Ethnic Studies, after "...a more complex understanding of the human 
experience". ADDITION: "This understanding relates to student knowledge of the concepts of 
indigeneity, colonialism, cultural hegemony, and self-determination, as they have occurred 
throughout history and today.”
2. Our second recommendation is that these concepts be explicitly culturally relevant and responsive to 
students in Chapter 14, p.426, line 675, after "co-investigators in the inquiry process". ADDITION: 
"This reflection of instructors and students' own personal histories should be considerate of how 
the concepts of indigeneity, colonialism, cultural hegemony, and community cultural wealth,     
relate to their own ancestral legacies as historically situated human beings.”
3. Our third recommendation, is to respect the Ethnic Studies tradition of explicitly acknowledging the 
Indigenous peoples of the land where any course is taking place. We recommend adding a sentence in 
Chapter 14, p.427, line 692, before the following sentence: “Students can investigate the history of the 
experience of various ethnic groups within the United States...”. ADDITION: “In studying various 
ethnic groups, the Indigenous peoples of any area under academic investigation and of any land 
where a course is taking place (e.g. Miwok in Sacramento, Chumash in Santa Barbara, Kumeyaay 
in San Diego), are respectfully acknowledged as the original peoples of the community.”
ETHNIC STUDIES NOW COALITION
The leading statewide advocacy group for Ethnic Studies
   OUR PRIMARY REQUESTS
   & IMPERATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS TO
   CA STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION 
   FOR CA HISTORY SOCIAL SCIENCE    
   FRAMEWORK - Ch.14, Grade 9, Ethnic Studies.
As the leading K-12 Ethnic Studies (ES) advocacy group throughout California, composed of all races, 
multiple ethnicities, and endorsed by the National Association of Ethnic Studies (founded 1972), it is 
imperative to us that teachers and students have access to the core framing concepts of Ethnic Studies 
today – we cannot deprive them of the critical historical dimensions of Ethnic Studies. Our concise but 
imperative additions, help transform the HSSFW ES course description from our current ESN assessment 
of: “good in many ways but very ahistorical and thus lacking a critical component - we cannot endorse”,  to 
an assessment of: “overall strong and well grounded, culturally and historically responsive; respectful of the 
historical literacy capabilities of students and the field of Ethnic Studies - we endorse.” Our recommendations 
are supported by leading Ethnic Studies classroom teachers and university professors from San Diego to 
Coachella, Los Angeles to Santa Barbara, Fresno to Stockton, Oakland to San Francisco, Sacramento to 
Sonoma, and students, parents, and community members, throughout California and the U.S., with 
ancestral roots here and throughout our planet. We thank you for your work members of the Board, we 
have hope for the future of California education for all students, including students of color, who Ethnic 
Studies first emerged to serve. This is why ES is a part of the solution to the achievement/opportunity gap – 
because it facilitates the opportunity to think critically about our own relationship and place in history, 
please do not deny this to students of Ethnic Studies courses. With our countless hours of classroom 
practice, researching, writing, and reflecting upon Ethnic Studies, academically and pedagogically, we 
humbly but confidently ask that you please accept our recommendations, in the interest of having a 
culturally and historically responsive Ethnic Studies, for the students across California.
www.ethnicstudiesnow.com         info@ethnicstudiesnow.com
Our concise line edit recommendations, help strengthen the course in relation to the following CFCC Guidelines:
* Include accurate information based on current and confirmed research.
* Be accessible and inclusive to all students. 
* The History–Social Science Framework should address the “big picture” by taking a look at global perspectives  
   at particular eras in time (using broad, synthetic statements).
* Update the narrative to reflect current and confirmed scholarly research in history–social science, and changes in 
  California, the United States, and the world since the last edition of the History–Social Science Framework was  
  published.
* Materials and content resources for teaching about civil rights, human rights violations, slavery, and the Holocaust (EC 
Section 51226.3)  
ed.
www.ethnicstudiesnow.com         info@ethnicstudiesnow.com
The CA HSSFW Description of Ethnic Studies Should Not Omit Contextual Guidance to Resolve these Questions. 
Such Ommissions May Be Harmful to Students of Color.  Our 3 Recommendations Resolve This. 
1. Does Black peoples’ history begin with slavery?                
 
 
 
 
           
2. Does Brown peoples’ history begin with European colonization and/or migration here to the U.S.? 
3. Does Asian American history begin with migration to the U.S.? 
4. Should the Indigenous peoples of any land where an Ethnic Studies course is taught be recognized? 
5. Do Students of Color have profound ancestral legacies and roots beyond recent histories?
6. Is academic and conceptual framing language of the field of ES important in teaching Ethnic Studies?                          
7. Should there be rigor, cultural and deep historical relevance & responsiveness in an Ethnic Studies course, to help 
students develop both academically and as historically situated human beings, envisioning & actualizing a better tomorrow?
Please note that these are just a few questions that become glaring in our read through of the current course description, 
there are many others we utilize in our framing of Ethnic Studies, including “Is a sense of empathy, inclusivity, and mutual 
respect present in the course framing? To what extent is intersectionality considered in the course framing?”. We found 
these elements of the course description to suffice for this iteration of the HSSFW, and we appreciate and thank you for that, 
however, the course is severely lacking in its historical framing for this iteration, and we, implore you to please allow us to 
help you resolve this with our recommendations.
Should the leading statewide Ethnic Studies advocacy group, Ethnic Studies Now Coalition, which includes the 
voices representative of all racial groups and multiple ethnicities, be heard and their imperative recommendations to 
the HSSFW Ethnic Studies course be accepted by the SBE, to provide a genuine and historically contextualized 
Ethnic Studies course description for the students of California?  
Respected Members of the Board, at the SBE Meeting on July 13-14th, we will present you with over 1000 signatories, in 
support of our imperative requests. We reiterate, this includes leading classroom teachers, students, parents, college and 
university professors, scholars, community members and organizations throughout California and beyond – we have 
attached a few signatures here in advance for you.  We would appreciate the opportunity to speak with you before your next 
meeting, please contact us at info@ethnicstudiesnow.com if you are available to meet with us either in person, or through 
conference call. We thank you for your work in service of the students of California. 
Respectfully, 
Ethnic Studies Now Coalition. 
ETHNIC STUDIES NOW COALITION - SBE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HSSFW CH.14 - ETHNIC STUDIES 
Signatories in Support of Our Recommendations (In Progress; A Small Sampling; 1000 Signatories at SBE Meeting)
ETHNIC STUDIES NOW COALITION - SBE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HSSFW CH.14 - ETHNIC STUDIES 
Signatories in Support of Our Recommendations (In Progress; A Small Sampling; 1000 Signatories at SBE Meeting)
Christine Sleeter, Ph.D., Professor Emerita in the College of Professional Studies, California State University 
Monterey Bay. Author of: http://www.nea.org/assets/docs/NBI-2010-3-value-of-ethnic-studies.pdf
Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz, Ph.D., Professor Emerita of Ethnic Studies, California State University East Bay
Author of: An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States
Theresa Montaño, Ph.D., Professor, California State University, Northridge;
Vice-President, California Teachers Association.
Angela Valenzuela, Ph.D., Professor, Educational Policy and Planning Program, Department of Educational 
Administration, and Cultural Studies in Education Program, Department of Curriculum & Instruction, University 
of Texas at Austin; Director of Texas Center for Education Policy; Director of National Latino Education 
Research Agenda Project.  Author of: Subtractive Schooling
Rodolfo Acuña, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus, California State University Northridge
Yen Le Espiritu, Ph.D., Professor, Director of Undergraduate Studies, University of California, San Diego
Valerie Ooka Pang, Ph.D., Professor, School of Teacher Education, San Diego State University
Daniel Solorzano, Ph.D, Professor of Education, and of Chicano/a Studies, University of California Los Angeles
Elizabeth Sáenz-Ackermann, Associate Director, Center for Latin American Studies, Stanford University
Ernest Morrell, Ph.D., Macy Professor of Education and Director,
Institute for Urban and Minority Education, Teachers College, Columbia University
Margarita Berta-Avila, Ed.D., Professor of Education, California State Universtiy Sacramento 
Dale Allender, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, College of Education, California State University Sacramento
Jeff Duncan-Andrade, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Raza Studies and Education Administration and 
Interdisciplinary Studies, San Francisco State University.
Celia Herrera Rodriguez, Univeristy of California Berkeley, Department of Ethnic Studies
David Stovall, Ph.D., Professor, Educational Policy Studies and African American Studies,
University of Illinois, Chicago
Ishmael Reed, Professor Emeritus, University of California Berkeley
Melina Abdullah, Ph.D., Professor and Chair, Pan-African Studies, California State University Los Angeles 
... .... .... ....
