From: Brennen Harris  
Sent: Friday, August 16, 2019 4:03 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> 
Subject: Intersectionality Hurts Everyone 
 
Intersectionality, viewing the world through the lens of oppressors and oppressed, is Marxist, 
racist, and sexist.  
 
Judging all men based on the actions of a few is sexist. Claiming that the relationship between 
men and women had always been one of dominance and control is sexist. Saying that white men 
are responsible for all the ails of the world and are presently and historically worse than other 
groups is racist.  
 
That would be like saying all black men are murderers; despite the fact that over half the murders 
on this country are committed by 13% of the population, we don't judge people based on their 
race. We treat the individual as sovereign. Treating people as a member of a racial, sexual, or 
societal group before considering them as an individual takes is towards communism. 
 
I understand that you're trying to fight against prejudice, hate, and injustice. I understand that 
you're fighting for equality. But this story has been played on the world stage dozens of times, 
and each time has ended in disaster. We had to invent phrases like "crimes against humanity" to 
describe the atrocities committed by communism, fascism, and other forms of socialism. 
 
Teaching people that different groups have always hated them will not create a culture that is 
accepting, diverse, and loving. It will breed contempt, protests, violence, and it will tear our 
country apart. Now is the time to bridge racial gaps, not broaden them. 
 
We should teach how communism rose and affected the entire world with the same vigor that we 
teach about fascism and slavery. 
 
Friedrich Nietzsche predicted that millions of people would die in the twentieth century because 
of communism, and it would almost be worth it if we learned from it. One hundred million 
people have been murdered by the Marxist ideas that you are advocating for at our schools. 
 
It's affected every corner of the world: USSR, Eastern Europe, North Korea, Cuba, Venezuela, 
Albania, Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, China, Mongolia, Afghanistan, Lybia, Syria, Iraq, Sudan, 
Angola, Benin, Congo, Ethiopia, Somalia, Mozambique, Yemen, Tanzania, Bangladesh, Guinea, 
Guyana, and more. Which of these countries is a place you would want to live? Why would you 
want to bring those ideas to the United States?  
 
Please understand my concern. Please recognize intersectionality as a Marxist philosophy. Please 
do not bring it to America, for the sake the millions of people here. Please learn from history 
rather than using grievances as a weapon. 
 
