Home    >    Archives    >    Volume   19   No.   1   -   Fall   2004    >    Standardizing   Imperialism  
Standardizing   Imperialism  
Fall  2004  
   
   
illustration:   Michael  Duffy  
By   Christine   E.   Sleeter  
In   March   2003,   while   watching   TV   coverage   of   the   lead-up   to   the   war   on   Iraq   and   the  
invasion   itself,   I   happened   to   be   examining   the   2001   edition   of   the    California  
History-Social   Science   Framework   and   Standards ,   the   state-adopted   content   standards  
for   teaching   social   studies   and   history   in   California's   K-12   schools.  
I   was   struck   by   the   parallels   between   basic   assumptions   in   the   standards   and   those   I   saw  
in   the   mainstream   media.   I   found   the   connection   between   standards   and   imperialism   to   be  
compelling   because   the   standards   bandwagon   has   shifted   attention   from  what   knowledge  
schools   should   teach   to   how   well   students   absorb   what   the   state   prescribes.  
I   wanted   to   examine   whether   state-mandated   curriculum   standards   not   only   discouraged  
students   from  thinking   critically   about   the   U.S.   role   in   world   affairs,   but   also   implicitly  
taught   imperialism.   In   my   opinion,   California's   standards,   which   are   held   up   as   a   model   for  
other   states,   obscure   the   history   of   U.S.   imperial   power   and   promote   an   "us/them"   view   of  
the   world   that   can   help   justify   further   U.S.   interventions,   such   as   the   war   in   Iraq.  
Obscuring   Colonial   History  
The   United   States   was   born   of   British   imperialism   and   acquired   its  territory   through  
imperialist   expansion.   As   the   dominant   capitalist   country,   the   United   States   uses   its  
military   and   economic   muscle   to   secure   markets,   natural   resources,   strategic   sites,   and  
energy   to   fuel   its  military,   industries,   and   lifestyle.   Imperialist   nations   sell   their   own   version  
of   the   colonization   process,   while   at   the   same   time   actively   obscuring   alternative   versions.  
I   wanted   to   look   at   how    California's   History-Social   Science   Framework   and   Standards    do  
this.  
The   standards   document   folds   indigenous   people   into   a   triumphal   story   of   U.S.   "growth,"  
while   ignoring   indigenous   analyses   of   the   same   history.   In   third   and   fourth   grades,  
students   are   to   study   local   and   state   history   according   to   a   sequence   of   events:   "the  
explorers   who   visited   here;   the   newcomers   who   settled   here;   the   economy   they  
established;   their   impact   on   the   American   Indians   of   this   region;   and   their   lasting   marks   on  
the   landscape."   Landscape   provides   the   context,   and   sequence   provides   the   structure   in  
which   people   "visit"   and   "settle."  
In   fifth   grade,   students   study   U.S.   history   starting   with   a   unit   devoted   to   the   cultures   of  
pre-Columbian   indigenous   people,   which   is   the   main   place   indigenous   people   appear   — 
relegated   to   a   distant   past.   In   fifth   and   eighth   grades,   students   are   to   trace   the   westward  
movement   of   whites   and   the   policy   of   Manifest   Destiny   using   maps,   spiced   with   exciting  
stories   of   personal   accounts   of   adventure.   Periodically,   students   are   asked   to   "consider  
the   viewpoint   of   the   American   Indians   who   occupied   these   same   lands,"   particularly   by  
studying   the   Trail   of   Tears,   but   then   the   same   narrative   of   triumphal   westward   movement  
continues.  
By   high   school,   indigenous   people   have   largely   disappeared   from  the   social   studies  
curriculum,   with   the   exception   of   insertion   of   the   word   "tribal"   into   a   12th   grade   standard  
regarding   levels   of   government.   The   concept   of   Indian   sovereignty   appears   only   in   a   third  
grade   standard   that   directs   students   to   "describe   the   ways   in   which   California,   the   other  
states,  and   sovereign   American   Indian   tribes   contribute   to   the   making   of   our   nation   and  
participate   in   the   federal   system   of   government,"   implying   that   tribes   have   parallel   power  
with   states.  
In   contrast,   historical   analyses   by   indigenous   peoples   focus   on   treaty   making   among  
sovereign   states,  and   on   how   the   United   States   increasingly   ignored,   then   pulverized  
treaties   and   exterminated   the   people   in   order   to   take   land.   There   is   no   mention   in   the  
standards   of   the   1887   Allotment   Act,   which   negated   Indian   control   of   land   and   shifted  
definitions   of   who   is   Indian   from  citizenship   in   a   sovereign   Indian   nation   to   how   much  
indigenous   blood   an   individual   has.   Native-American   Historian   Ward   Churchill   called   the  
Allotment   Act,   along   with   the   Indian   Citizenship   Act,   passed   in   1924,   sovereignty's   "Great  
Disappearing   Act."   Neither   appears   in   the   California   standards   document,   nor   does   a  
study   of   maps   indicating   land   cessions   and   contemporary   reservations.  
The   standards   use   the   term  "colonist,"   but   do   little   with   the   concept   of   "colonialism."   Fifth  
and   eighth   graders   are   supposed   to   learn   that   early   U.S.   history   had   a   colonial   period;   the  
term  "colonist"   refers   simply   to   a   category   of   people   who   lived   in   the   northeastern   United  
States   between   the   1600s   and   1700s,   particularly   those   who   fought   in   the   War   for  
Independence.   In   high   school,   students   use   maps   to   survey   colonial   possessions   of   such  
nations   as   France,   Germany,   Italy,   Japan,   the   Netherlands,   and   the   United   States.   They  
study   the   Spanish-American   War   in   relationship   to   the   United   States   becoming   a   world  
power,   rather   than   in   relationship   to   the   United   States   colonizing   the   Philippines   and  
Puerto   Rico.   Nowhere   is   there   serious   study   of   colonialism   from  perspectives   of   peoples  
who   were   colonized.  
The   standards   frame   today's   global   economy   mainly   in   terms  of   how   countries  
"interrelate,"   "specialize   for   trade,"   and   achieve   "global   stability."   For  example,   10th  
graders   are   to   "analyze   the   integration   of   countries   into   the   world   economy."   Eleventh  
graders   are   to   study   "global   interrelatedness"   of   national   economies   and   "the  
establishment   of   the   United   Nations   and   International   Declaration   of   Human   Rights,  
International   Monetary   Fund,   World   Bank,   and   General   Agreement   on   Tariffs   and   Trade  
(GATT)   and   their   importance   in   shaping   modern   Europe   and   maintaining   peace   and  
international   order."   This   point   of   view   suggests   supporting   rather   than   questioning  
capitalist   globalization.  
As   an   alternative,   students   could   study   the   impact   of   Structural   Adjustment   Programs   or  
transnational   corporations   on   ordinary   people   in   impoverished   countries,   such   as   how  
industrialized   nations   pressure   Third   World   nations   to   shift   economic   production   from  
goods   for   local   consumption   to   export   goods.   Students   could   study   strings   attached   to  
borrowing   from  the   World   Bank,   and   the   massive   debt   that   Third   World   nations   incur   as   a  
result.  
Students   could   juxtapose   and   debate   perspectives   that   support   and   critique   capitalist  
globalization.   Instead,   the    History-Social   Science   Framework   and   Standards   for   California  
Public   Schools    do   little   to   help   students   develop   ways   of   thinking   that   could   question   U.S.  
imperialism.  
Us   vs.   Them  
President   George   W.   Bush   has   consistently   framed   U.S.   policy   as   conflict   between  
freedom-loving   (generally   non-Muslim)   people   versus   terrorist   regimes   (generally   Muslim).  
For  example,   in   a   June   2003   address,   he   said,   "In   Afghanistan,   in   Iraq,   we   gave  
ultimatums   to   terror   regimes.   Those   regimes   chose   defiance   and   those   regimes   are   no  
more.   Fifty   million   people   in   those   two   countries   once   lived   under   tyranny,   and   now   they  
live   in   freedom."   Bush   has   repeatedly   stated   that   countries   are   either   "with   us   or   against  
us."  
A   fundamental   element   of   the   ideology   of   imperialism   is   dividing   the   world   into   an   "us"   that  
is   more   civilized   than   "them."   In   California's   curriculum,   students   gradually   learn   three  
overlapping   binaries:   Western   versus   non-Western,   Judeo-Christian   versus   other  
religions,   and   democratic   political   systems/free   market   economies   versus   totalitarian  
systems.  
In   sixth   and   seventh   grades,   students   are   to   learn   that   the   United   States   grew   from  
Western   civilizations.   When   studying   ancient   Greece   and   Rome,   they   are   to   identify   the  
"influence   of   both   cultures   on   Western   civilization   and   on   our   lives   today,"   and   when  
studying   ancient   Hebrew   civilization,   they   are   to   connect   Judaism   with   "moral   and   ethical  
traditions   of   Western   civilization."   The   curriculum   emphasizes   repeatedly   that   these  
cultural   traditions   provided   the   roots   of   Western   ethics   and   values,   democracy,   and   "the  
dawn   of   rational   thought."   In   10th   and   12th   grades,   U.S.   political   institutions   and   values  
are   again   traced   back   to   the   ancient   Greeks,   Romans,   Hebrews,   Enlightenment  
philosophy,   and   English   parliamentary   systems.   The   curriculum   continually   promotes   the  
idea   that   the   United   States   grew   from  the   Western   tradition.   By   doing   so   it   negates  
cultural   roots   in   any   other   parts   of   the   world,   or   with   indigenous   peoples.   The   standards  
do   not   mention   the   Haudeno-saunee   (Iroquois)   Great   Law   of   Peace   or   the   Council   of  
Confederacy   legislative   process,   models   that,   along   with   the   British   Constitution   and  
Magna   Carta,   were   borrowed   from  to   form  the   U.S.   Constitution.  
Students   study   world   religions   mainly   in   sixth   and   seventh   grades.   The   history   of  
Christianity   receives   the   most   attention,   appearing   in   units   about   ancient   Rome,   medieval  
Europe,   and   the   European   Renaissance   and   Reformation.   Students   study   the   history,  
values,   and   beliefs   of   Buddhism,   Confucianism,   and   Judaism.   In   addition,   they   study  
Muslim   civilizations   in   the   Middle   East   and   North   Africa,   and   the   spread   of   Islam,   such   as  
in   Standard   7.2:   "Discuss   the   expansion   of   Muslim   rule   through   military   conquests   and  
treaties,   emphasizing   the   cultural   blending   within   Muslim   civilization   and   the   spread   and  
acceptance   of   Islam   and   the   Arabic   language."   For  students   who   come   from  
Judeo-Christian   homes,   these   studies   of   religion   reinforce   the   familiar   and   provide   some  
terminology   for   "other"   religions   they   might   hear   about,   but   not   necessarily   depth   of  
understanding.   But   these   studies   ignore   the   role   that   conquest   and   military   violence  
played   in   spreading   not   just   Islam,   but   also   Christianity.  
The   California   standards   develop   a   third   dichotomy   mainly   at   the   high   school   level   —  
democratic/free   market   versus   totalitarian   systems.   For  example,   in   12th   grade,   students  
compare   and   contrast   various   forms  of   government,   particularly   dictatorships   versus  
democracies.   Standard   12.9   directs   students   to   identify   "the   forms  of   illegitimate   power  
that   20th-century   African,   Asian,   and   Latin-American   dictators   used   to   gain   and   hold  
office."   But   the   standard   neglects   to   point   out   the   role   the   United   States   played   in   installing  
and   propping   up   these   dictators   —  Somoza   in   Nicaragua   and   Duvalier   in   Haiti   come   to  
mind   —  or   in   toppling   democratic   governments   such   as   Mossadegh   in   Iran,   Allende   in  
Chile,   or   Arbenz   in   Guatemala.  
California's   curriculum   folds   students   into   a   "we"   that   is   Western,   Judeo-Christian,   and   has  
a   democratic   government   with   a   capitalist   market   economy.   These   are   juxtaposed   against  
"them":   non-Western,   not   Judeo-Christian,   and   totalitarian   (or   not   free).   While   case  
examples   of   non-European   nations   moving   toward   political   democracy   (such   as   South  
Korea)   and   European   nations   moving   toward   fascism   (such   as   Germany)   suggest   that  
particular   systems   do   not   necessarily   follow   particular   peoples,   repeated   emphasis   of  
"our"   roots   in   Western   (particularly   British)   traditions   attaches   "us"   to   Europe.  
But   the   United   States   is   multiracial   and   religiously   diverse.   The   framework   and   standards  
use   the   language   of   multiculturalism   to   fold   diverse   people   into   this   "we"   mainly   by  
celebrating   cultural   contributions   of   non-whites.   In   fifth   grade,   for   example,   students  
should   "learn   about   the   significant   contributions   that   black   men   and   women   made   to   the  
economic,   political,   and   cultural   development   of   the   nation,   including   its  music,   literature,  
art,   science,   medicine,   technology,   and   scholarship."   But   these   significant   contributions  
are   not   generally   spelled   out.   Neither   are   exploitative   conditions   under   which   many   such  
"contributions"   were   made,   such   as   unpaid   or   poorly   paid   labor.   The   curriculum  
acknowledges   struggles   of   immigrants   and   African   Americans,   but   emphasizes   that  
opportunities   have   outweighed   struggles.  
The   standards   have   difficulty   incorporating   as   "we"   those   whom   the   United   States   had  
previously   colonized.   Being   written   for   California,   they   simply   ignore   colonized   peoples  
outside   of   California,   such   as   Puerto   Ricans   and   Hawaiians.   They   treat   Mexicans   mainly  
as   immigrants,   ignoring   that   the   United   States   took   California   from  Mexico   after   waging  
war   against   Mexico.   They   locate   Native   Americans   in   the   past.   This   is   also   the   only  
American   cultural   group   that   is   studied   through   separate   units   that   survey   culture,  
religious   beliefs,   economic   activities,   legends,   and   so   forth,   and   only   at   the   elementary  
level.   (Imagine,   by   way   of   contrast,   students   studying   the   culture,   religious   beliefs,  
economy,   and   stories   of   English-Americans   in   fifth   grade,   and   then   not   much   after   that.)  
It   is   important   to   recognize   that   a   "multicultural"   curriculum   can   be   constructed   around   an  
imperialist   ideology.   As   the   examples   above   show,   students   can   study   world   civilizations  
but   in   the   process   also   learn   to   divide   the   world   into   "us/them."   Students   can   learn   about  
racial,   ethnic,   and   religious   diversity   within   the   United   States,  and   at   the   same   time   bind  
that   diversity   to   a   Western,   European-based,   Judeo-Christian   capitalist   conception   of   who  
"we"   are.  
Virtues   of   ‘Our'   Way   of   Life  
To   justify   the   war   on   Iraq,   President   Bush   often   evokes   presumed   American   virtues,  
stating,   for   example,   that   the   "future   of   freedom   and   peace   depend   on   the   actions   of  
America,"   and   that   America   is   "strong,"   "principled,"   "courageous,"   and   "compassionate."  
Blanket   association   of   the   United   States   with   virtues   helps   to   justify   imperialist   actions.  
In   the   standards   document,   these   positive   value-laden   terms  are   applied   to   systems,  
particularly   representative   democracy   and   capitalism.   The   terms  "free,"   "choice,"  
"rational,"   and   "liberty"   are   virtues   linked   with   capitalism   throughout   the   grades.   From   first  
through   12th   grade,   students   are   to   learn   how   free-market   economies   take   their   direction  
from  individual   choices   of   consumers.   In   7th   grade,   for   example,   they   are   to   learn   that  
capitalism   grew   out   of   the   Enlightenment:   As   Europeans   developed   rational   thinking,   they  
also   developed   capitalist   market   economies   based   on   private   ownership   and   free   choice.  
The   standards   don't   point   out   that   corporate   boards   of   directors   are   not   popularly   elected,  
and   boards   routinely   dismiss   substantive   shareholder   participation.  
Students   also   study,   throughout   the   grades,   democracy   as   embodied   in   the   Constitution,  
learning   that   a   representative   democracy   is   the   best   political   system   because   the  
government   obtains   its  power   from  the   consent   of   citizens.   Terms   associated   with   a  
representative   democratic   system   are   much   the   same   as   those   associated   with   market  
economy:   "individual   liberty,"   "rights,"   "justice,"   and   "freedom."   In   this   way,   the   standards  
imply   that   they   are   two   dimensions   of   the   same   system.  
By   conflating   democracy   with   capitalism,   the   standards   fail   to   suggest   that   economic   life  
might   be   much   more   democratic.   For  example,   Central   and   Latin   America   have   an   active,  
ongoing   history   of   popular   movements   (for  instance,   in   Brazil,   Bolivia,   Nicaragua)   of  
establishing   economic   systems   where   wealth   is   much   more   popularly   controlled   and  
equitably   distributed   than   under   capitalism.  
Students   are   encouraged   to   regard   the   U.S.   political/economic   system   as   the   best  
possible.   The   following   passage,   from  a   description   of   the   fifth   grade   curriculum,  
illustrates:  
This   course   focuses   on   one   of   the   most   remarkable   stories   in   history:   the   creation   of   a  
new   nation,   peopled   by   immigrants   from  all   parts   of   the   globe   and   governed   by   institutions  
founded   on   the   Judeo-Christian   heritage,   the   ideals   of   the   Enlightenment,   and   English  
traditions   of   self-government.   This   experiment   was   inspired   by   the   innovative   dream   of  
building   a   new   society,   a   new   order   for   the   ages,   in   which   the   promises   of   the   Declaration  
of   Independence   would   be   realized.  
While   the   curriculum   acknowledges   that   this   is   an   imperfect   system,   it   claims   this   to   be   the  
best   system   humankind   has   developed,   based   on   bottom-up   rather   than   top-down   flow   of  
power.   (I   find   that   ironic,   since   the   whole   idea   of   states   telling   teachers   what   to   teach   is  
top-down   rather   than   bottom-up.)  
Imperialist   nations,   attributing   their   own   prosperity   to   their   superior   cultural   and   intellectual  
systems   rather   than   to   any   history   of   exploitation,   perceive   a   duty   to   name   and   solve   the  
problems   of   the   "other,"   even   if   force   is   required.   When   President   Bush   says,   "We   seek   to  
lift   whole   nations   by   spreading   freedom,"   he   is   calling   on   a   belief   that   the   United   States   is  
entitled   to   apply   power   to   name   and   solve   other   people's   problems.  
For  example,   when   studying   "Unresolved   Problems   of   the   Modern   World,"   10th-grade  
students   are   to   learn   "that   the   history   of   the   United   States   has   had   special   significance   for  
the   rest   of   the   world,   both   because   of   its  free   political   system   and   its  pluralistic   nature,"  
and   that,   "Although   democratic   ideals   first   emerged   in   the   West,   almost   every   nation   pays  
them   at   least   rhetorical   homage."   If   the   rest   of   the   world   wants   to   be   more   like   the   United  
States,   then   incorporating   everyone   else   into   a   U.S.   world   must   be   progress.   If   taught   as  
written,   the   standards   encourage   students   to   accept   the   imperial   mandate   without  
question.  
State-mandated   Curricula   and   Free   Inquiry  
Many   of   us   believe   the   war   on   Iraq   is   the   most   recent   installment   in   a   long   history   of   U.S.  
imperialism.   The   United   States   has   been   trying   to   control   oil   production   in   the   Middle   East  
since   1947   or   earlier,   and   Vice   President   Cheney's   former   firm   Halliburton   did   active  
business   with   Saddam   Hussein   in   the   1990s.   The   war   is   part   of   a   larger   strategy   of  
aggressively   intimidating   any   potential   challengers   to   U.S.   global   domination.   And   despite  
claims   that   its  purpose   was   to   serve   the   Iraqi   people,   Iraqi   death   tolls,   rarely   mentioned   in  
U.S.   media,   were   somewhere   between   10,000   and   45,000   troops,   according   to   Larry  
Everest,   author   of    Oil,   Power   and   Empire ,   and   between   5,000   and   10,000   civilians,  
according   to   the    Christian   Science   Monitor .  
I   am   troubled   by   the   fact   that   such   a   curriculum   exists,   but   I   am   much   more   troubled   that   it  
has   been   adopted   by   the   state   to   structure   how   history   and   social   studies   are   to   be   taught  
in   California.   There   are   alternatives   to   teaching   students   to   divide   the   world   into   "us"   and  
"them."   Rather   than   telling   stories   about   the   past   based   on   assumptions   of   the   present,  
which   is   how   the   California   curriculum   is   constructed,   for  example,   education   professor  
Sam   Wineburg   suggests   that   teachers   can   help   students   learn   to   "see   through   the   eyes   of  
the   people   who   were   there,"   and   in   the   process,   "teach   us   what   we   cannot   see,   to  
acquaint   us   with   the   congenital   blurriness   of   our   vision."  
Alternative   teaching   guides   provide   readings   and   teaching   strategies   with   alternative  
narratives   about   imperialism.    Rethinking   Globalization    ,   for   example,   contextualizes   the  
new   global   economy   in   an   analysis   of   colonialism,   features   critical   analyses   from   the  
standpoints   of   Third   World   people,   and   offers   suggestions   for   teaching   at   the   elementary  
and   secondary   level.   [See   page   60   to   order.]  
We   need   to   offer   our   students   multiple   narratives   and   viewpoints   about   imperialism   in  
history   as   well   as   today   —  from  dominant   as   well   as   subordinate   points   of   view.   This   is  
one   way   young   people   will   learn   to   think   critically   about   the   ways   the   United   States  
exercises   its  power   in   the   world.   It's   also   the   beginning   of   allowing   students   to   imagine   the  
possibility   of   forging   new   relationships   based   on   mutuality   rather   than   control.  
Christine   Sleeter   ( christine_sleeter@csumb.edu )  is   Professor   Emeritus   at   California   State  
University   Monterey   Bay.   She   is   currently   completing   a   book   examining   multicultural  
curriculum   in   relationship   to   the   standards   movement.  
Fall  2004  
 
