From: MARGARET FOUDA   
Sent: Sunday, January 12, 2020 9:11 AM 
To: Superintendent  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic studies in school 

Dear Mr. Thurmond, 
I am glad that the ethnic studies curriculum is being reviewed and hope 
that students will gain an understanding of the different backgrounds 
of students making up our student body.  
After reading Jweekly, I was very concerned about comments you made 
regarding problems in the ethnic studies curriculum. You stated that 
you "circled" the word "Nakba" in the draft. "As far as I'm concerned, 
there should be no reference to the creation of anyone's homeland as 
being catastrophic". 
The Nakba was a real event, the expulsion of three quarters of a million 
Palestinians before 1948 and in 1948 when the state of Israel was 
created. These people were not allowed to return to their homes. Many 
of these homes are now occupied by prominent Israelis or were 
bulldozed. More than 500 villages were destroyed, many planted over. 
For example Canada Park in Israel was created after the destruction of 
4 Palestinian villages. Israel continues to remove Palestinians from their 
land. It has built a 30-foot wall through Palestinian land (declared illegal 
by the international court), created roads and housing for Jews only, 
and operates numerous checkpoints to control the non-Jewish 
population.  
 If we wish to understand history, we must acknowledge what 
happened to the people living on the land that Israel claimed: the 
Nakba.  Many Israelis have acknowledged that Israel is becoming an 
apartheid state.  
We do not leave out mention of the trail of tears and taking of 
Native American lands or slavery of African Americans when we 
read  the history of the United States.  We must not gloss over the 
real history of the creation of the state of Israel. There are many 
Palestinian students, children of the Diaspora in Alameda county 
schools. It would be unfair to gloss over their tragedy to make 

 
sure Israel and Zionism is presented as flawless.  Anti-Zionism is 
not the same as Anti-Semitism.  

Sincerely, 
Margaret Fouda 
Berkeley, CA  

 
 
