MICHAEL G, ADELBERG

1205 Lantérn CT State Superintendent
Sacramento, CA 95864 of Public Instruction
Mr Tony Thurmond, Superintendent of Public Instruction. JAN = 3) 2020
California Department of Education

1430 N Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Re: California Department of Education’s Model Curriculum for teaching Ethnic Studies
in grades K-12.

Dear Mr Thurmond:

Thave carefully reviewed all 300+ pages of the last public posting of the draft for
California Depattment of Education’s. Model Curriculum for teaching Ethnic Studies in
grades K-12,

This documient is wholly inconsistent with the principles you yourself have posted,
reflecting your intentions and priorities on the State: website.

The entire document stinks of a crusade to idolizes convicted criminals, especially
murders and mass murderers, treated uniformly as heroes and‘role models to: be emulated
and construes. appropriate law enforcement measures as inherently brutal, racist, and
oppressive.

Here are a few examples:

® The list of “Potential Significant Figures” on p.50 includes convicted peace officer
killers: Mumia Abu Jamal and Assata Shakur.

Mr. Jamal, still in prison, remains a popular figure in some circles. In 2015 a New
Jersey teacher sued the school board for firing her after she had her class write “get
weil” letters to him in prison.

Nis. Shakur is living. in Cuba, having escaped from prison; she remains.on the FBI's
most wanted list.

e Onp. 80 it suggests Oscar Lopez Rivera and Lolita Lebron as notable figures.

Mir. Rivera was the feader of clandestine paramilitary organization that carried out
more than 130 bomb attacks in the US from 1974 to 1983.

Ms Lebron was convicted of multiple counts of attempted murder and other
crimes after leading an assault on the United States House of Representatives in
1954 which wounded 5 Congressmen.
e On pages 69-74, the materials present lessons explicitly praise prison rioters.
These include the inmates who rioted and killed correctional officers atthe Attica
prison in 1971. The goal of the lesson is explicitly that “students empathize
with Attica prisoners.” Students are to be graded on how well they sympathize
with the killers.

® There are also songs and praise for George Jackson, a Solédad prison inmate who
murdered a corrections officer, then later led an escape from San Quentin prison
where he and his co-conspirators killed-a number. of correctional officers before
he was killed by.a guard.

® Pages 62-67 teach the systematic vilification of legitimate and badly need law
enforcement s “Police Brutality.” All if it reflects the radical party-line doctrine
that police work is inherently racist and oppressive, and presenting only
propaganda supposedly supportive of this infamous outlook. In point of fact,
law enforcement has yet to be consulted about any of this, nor-has any draft of this
infamous proposal even been directed by any State agency to any California law
forcement authority (except, very recently, through my own personal efforts).

e inthe African American section, casually listed as an “African American
spiritual and religious tradition”, are the Hebrew Israelites, members of which
group recently rampaged through a kosher market in Jersey City, murdering
Jewish, white and Latino victims for their cause.

The point of view consistently expressed throughout this document tries to enlist ethnic
populations into the drafters’ brazen code:of systematic and sustained violence. It is
identical to the outlook of Middle East terrorists.around the world, consistently
identifying wanton killers of civilians as the-ultimate goal for personal achievement. The
only difference is that in the State’s draft, legitimate law enforcement is anathematized,
identified as legitimate if not requited targets for assassination, in place of the West in the
Middle Eastern version. Can it really be possible that the Staté of California will require
students to be mandatorily indoctrinated into this Hezbollah-style outlook? Does the
Dept. of Education not know the extent.of State and local resources dedicated to
protecting the public from exactly this gang mentality? How many ethnic lives were
ruined by the identical preaching, in its time, of Malcolm X? How is it possible that
California farmed out the drafting work to a notorious gang whose goals and methods
would make Lenin blanch?

How would legitimate law enforcement be possible if this rant reflects the official policy
of the State?

Please prevent.California from adopting terrorisy} as ifs official educational policy.

Thank you for your consideration,

