October 14, 2019 

Instructional Quality Commission 
California Department of Education 
1430 N Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814-5901 

Re: APIs for Ethnic Studies’ Statement on the Disciplinary Boundaries of Ethnic Studies 

Dear Committee Members: 

We, as directors and chairs of Asian American Studies and Ethnic Studies programs in Northern 
California, wish to provide input as you consider California’s Model Ethnic Curriculum. Specifically, we 
express our support for the inclusion of Arab American and Pacific Islander Studies as an extension of 
Asian American Studies.  

Asian American Studies (AAS) has been an academic discipline for the past fifty years, addressing the 
unique voices, histories, humanities, and issues of this broad, racialized group. Emerging from the Black 
Student Union/Third World Liberation Front strike at SF State University, the founders of Asian American 
Studies challenged the twin evils of racism at home and militarism abroad. As this discipline has grown, 
it has come to encompass more groups and topics, and to develop its own theories and methodologies.  

AAS is partnering with Pacific Islander and Arab American communities in its scholarship because of our 
shared regional and social experiences including 1) Orientalization (as coined by Arab American 
intellectual, Edward Said); 2) discrimination and stereotyping as nonwhites, and 3) colonization of our 
lands, cultures, and peoples.  As a politicized grouping—as seen in the federal designation of Asian 
American Native American Pacific Islander serving institutions (AANAPISI)—we work in education to 
empower our respective communities, fight for social justice, and effect societal change. Thus, our 
courses learning outcomes reflect this mission across campuses.  

Another example of the expansion of Asian American Studies is the faculty position for both Asian 
American Studies and Critical Pacific Islands and Oceania Studies at SF State University. Prof. Ponipate 
Rokoluketu teaches in both programs, and our courses will be linked.  

Since its founding, AAS has aligned itself with its fellow disciplines in Ethnic Studies: American Indian 
Studies, Africana/Black Studies, and Chicano/ Latinx,i  groups that have been racialized as nonwhites and 
part of the common struggle for racial justice and equity. In 1972, AAS scholars played a significant role 
in the establishment of National Association of Interdisciplinary Studies for Native American, Black, 
Chicano, Puerto Rican, and Asian Americans (renamed the Association of Ethnic Studies in 2017). In 
California, AAS has also been constituent program in the broader field of Ethnic Studies. 

For instance, in 1992 the CSU Council of Ethnic Studies first convened with an AAS representative as a 
constituent member to respond to the Los Angeles riots and to improve race relations. At that meeting, 
this council reaffirmed that Ethnic Studies should focus on the experiences of people of color through 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the four original racialized groups. At the campus level, in 2002 the Master’s program of Asian American 
Studies at CSU Long Beach was threatened to be cut. This program worked in solidarity with other 
programs; it fought to keep the Department of Africana Studies from being downgraded to only a 
program, and to keep Native American Studies from being folded into the Department of History.  

Similarly, by extending AAS to the experiences of our Pacific Islander and Arab American counterparts, 
we are enriching our discipline while demonstrating much-needed solidarity with communities from our 
region that are inadequately represented in courses across California.  

Thank you again for your hard work, and we would appreciate forwarding our suggestions to the 
Department of Education and the state legislature. 

Prof. Russell Jeung 
Chair, San Francisco State University AAS 

Prof. Robyn Rodriguez 
Chair, UC Davis AAS 

Prof. Genevieve Leung 
Chair, on behalf of the University of San Francisco Asian Pacific American Studies 

Prof. Angie Fa 
Chair, City College of San Francisco AAS 
Titles and Institutions for Identification Purposes 

Cc: Assemblymember Shirley Weber; Dr. Allyson Tintiangco-Cubales 

i The CSU Task Force on the Advancement of Ethnic Studies defines the field as “the  study  of  race  and  ethnicity  
anchored  in  the  histories  and philosophies, from the perspective of and in the service of the community-based 
needs, of people of color... It will address the intersectionality of race and ethnicity with gender, sexuality, 
disability, and other areas from the perspective of ethnic studies; however, will not speak about or for allied 
disciplines.” Report of the CSU  Task Force on the Advancement of Ethnic Studies, 2016. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
