From: Heather Billings  
Sent: Wednesday, October 9, 2019 4:14 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies  
Subject: Suggestions 

Hello my name is Heather and I am a mother of two multicultural children who are in fourth and fifth 
grade in Tulare County. I would very much like to see change in the curriculum especially after my 
daughter's came home in tears after being taught that Santa Claus had a slave named Black Pete. I 
would like the curriculum to have accurate factual African American history. There is so much history 
that could be taught to the children that would benefit them instead of inaccuracies. I believe the 
narrative needs to change instead of being taught that slaves were stolen from Africa they need to 
change the language to say professionals, doctors lawyers, and teachers were stolen from Africa not 
slaves they were not slaves to begin with. Why can't we teach them about the Moors and keep our own 
US history accurate bye letting it be known that the first 16 presidents of this country were slave 
owners. I'm tired of the only thing my kids being taught during black history month is about Martin 
Luther King Jr. why can't they learn about the black man who created the street light the refrigerator I 
can go on and on there's so much more to African American history in the United States besides Martin 
Luther King and it's a shame that the same inaccurate things that I was taught are still being taught in 
the school system in California. In the next 5 to 10 years there is going to be a huge number of 
multicultural students entering the school system and I do not feel that the school districts are 
prepared. Please put me on the email list or point me in the direction I need to go to get my concerns 
heard. I have already contacted the NAACP and I've already had formal conferences with them.and our 
superintendent that are on going  regarding the Black Pete issue. Thank you I look forward to hearing 
from you soon. 

A concerned parent, 
Heather Billings 

 
 
 
