JPAC Board of 
Directors 

Jewish Federation of 
Greater Los Angeles 

Jewish Community 
Federation of San 
Francisco 

Jewish Community 
Relations Council of 
San Francisco, the 
Peninsula, Marin, 
Sonoma, Alameda, and 
Contra Costa Counties 

Jewish Family Service 
of Los Angeles 

Jewish Family and 
Children’s Services of 
San Francisco, the 
Peninsula, Marin, and 
Sonoma Counties 

Jewish Family Service 
of San Diego 

Jewish Federation of 
San Diego 

Jewish Federation of 
Greater Long Beach 
and West Orange 
County 

Jewish Federation of 
Silicon Valley 

Jewish Community 
Relations Council 
Sacramento  

Jewish Federation of 
Greater Santa Barbara 

Jewish Federation and 
Family Services of 
Orange County 

Jewish Family and 
Community Services, 
East Bay  

Anti-Defamation 
League 

American Jewish 
Committee  

30 Years After 

Jewish Labor 
Committee Western 
Region 

Hadassah  

ETTA Ohel 

Bet Tzedek 

Jewish Center for 
Justice 

JVS So-Cal 

Jewish Family 
Services, Silicon Valley 

The Los Angeles 
Museum of the 
Holocaust  

November 18, 2019 

Stephanie Gregson, Executive Director 
Instructional Quality Commission 
Deputy Superintendent, Instruction & Measurement Branch 
California Department of Education 
1430 N Street, Room 5602 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Stephanie Gregson: 

The Jewish Public Affairs Committee of California (JPAC) recognizes the value of Ethnic 
Studies and the research demonstrating its benefits on students. JPAC is the largest 
single-state coalition of Jewish organizations in the nation. We advocate in Sacramento on 
behalf of our members, which are comprised of Jewish Federations, Jewish Community 
Relations Councils, Jewish Family Service agencies, and many other California-based 
Jewish organizations.   

We appreciate the long history and struggle to teach Ethnic Studies at the K-12 level. We 
also recognize there are differing philosophical approaches to teaching Ethnic Studies and 
believe the state has an important decision to make about how it will go about this 
important undertaking. Indeed, on July 23, 2019 JPAC submitted a letter to the IQC that 
included a thorough review of the model curriculum and recommendations for 
modifications.  We recognize that at the university-level, Ethnic Studies has had a 
traditional focus on four groups: African Americans, Latinx/Chicanx Americans, Native 
Americans, and Asian Americans.  However, the initial draft of the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum illustrated a different philosophy that broadened the focus to include additional 
ethnic groups. This seemed in keeping with the call for inclusion in the ESMC Guidelines 
and with the definition of Ethnic Studies considered by the Legislature in AB 2016. 

We  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  Ethnic  Studies  Model  Curriculum  Guidelines  require  the 
curriculum to: 

• 
• 

“Be written in language that is inclusive and supportive of multiple users” 
“Encourage cultural understanding of how different groups have struggled and 

worked together, highlighting core ethnic studies concepts such as consciousness 
raising and knowledge building, identity development and self-determination, justice and 
social change, and love, respect”  

• 

“Be inclusive by creating space for all students regardless of race, ethnicity, class, 

gender, sexuality, or citizenship to learn different perspectives”  

JPAC  expects  transparency  from  the  California  Department  of  Education  and  the 
Instructional  Quality  Commission  on  the  re-development  of  the  Ethnic  Studies  Model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Curriculum.  In  light  of  the  creation  of  the  Ethnic  Studies  Panel  and  its  recent  hearing  in 
Sacramento on October 15, 2019, we wish to reiterate the following: 

1.  The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum should include Antisemitism in discussions of hate 

crimes, bias, prejudice, and stereotyping and be listed explicitly. 

2.  The final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum must remove all derogatory references or 

biased descriptions of Jews, Judaism, Israel, and Israelis.  The Institute for Curriculum 
(ICS) Services’ review submitted by JPAC during the public comment period details the 
issues and provides tangible recommendations. ICS is available as a resource to CDE 
during the redesign process. 

3.  If the State retains the expanded coverage of ethnic groups as seen in the first draft of 
the model curriculum (Chapter 2), then Jewish Americans should be appropriately and 
respectfully included.  

Additionally, JPAC and our partner organizations specifically request your response to the 
following:   

1.  Has the CDE and IQC determined the philosophical approach to Ethnic Studies and how 

the term will be defined?   

2.  How does the answer to the above question conform to AB 2016 and the Ethnic Studies 

Model Curriculum Guidelines? 

3.  What is the new Ethnic Studies panel’s specific timeline for action and revision?  

4.  How is the State acknowledging and utilizing the detailed public comments it received 

this summer in the process moving forward? 

Thank you for your commitment to accurate and representative education for all California 
students. We appreciate your timely attention to this matter. We look forward to participating in 
the process and appreciate the opportunity to provide input. 

Sincerely, 

Lynn Bunim 
JPAC Chairwoman 

Cliff Berg 
Legislative Advocate   

Julie Zeisler 
Executive Director, JPAC     

CC: Members of the Instructional Quality Commission 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
