High School Ethnic Studies Graduation Requirement 
State of California 

Suggested Basic Curriculum Principles  

(Version 3, November 23, 2019) 

by Carlos E. Cortés 
   Edward A. Dickson Emeritus 

 Professor of History 

   University of California, 

 Riverside 

The California State Legislature is considering the 

establishment of an Ethnic Studies requirement for high school 

graduation.  This raises a basic question: can state education 

leaders agree on a set of basic principles to help guide the 

teaching of high school Ethnic Studies?   At the request of the 

California State Board of Education, I have developed the 

following suggested set of Ethnic Studies curriculum principles 

(my original draft was submitted on September 17, 2019).  In 

developing these principles I have considered ideas presented in 

three documents: 

(1) Assembly Bill No. 2016, Chapter 327, which was approved 

by the Governor on September 13, 2016 (hereafter referred to as 

Assembly Bill No. 2016).  

(2) the California Department of Education’s 2020 Ethnic 

Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines (hereafter referred to as 

Guidelines).  

(3) Chapter 1, Introduction and Overview, Why Teach Ethnic 

Studies?, submitted by the History-Social Science Subject Matter 

Committee on May 16, 2019 (hereafter referred to as Ethnic 

Studies Introduction). 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, for historical context on the development of 

Ethnic Studies, I revisited the seminal 1976 Curriculum 

Guidelines for Multiethnic Education of the National Council for 

the Social Studies, created by a task force headed by pioneering 

Ethnic Studies scholar James A. Banks.  (Full disclosure: I was a 

member of that five-person task force.)  Among other things, that 

document called for multiethnic education to help students 

develop ‘‘a better sense of self,’’ ‘‘skills necessary for 

effective interpersonal and interethnic group interactions,’’ and 

the ability ‘‘to view and interpret events, situations, and 

conflict from diverse ethnic perspectives and points of view.’’  

In suggesting these Ethnic Studies principles, I have 

attempted to meet the Guidelines’ appeal for clarity.  In 

particular, the Guidelines (page 2) call for language that ‘‘is 

inclusive and supportive of multiple users, including teachers 

(single and multiple-subject), support staff, administrators, and 

the community.’’  Obviously, a set of basic principles should 

help educators.  Equally important, these principles should 

succinctly and clearly explain the purpose, scope, and value of 

Ethnic Studies so that students, parents, and other members of 

the community, including those not conversant with educational 

jargon, can readily understand them.  To that end, I have 

attempted to keep such jargon to a minimum, using it only in 

places where I felt it necessary.   

After considering the three State documents, I have 

concluded that Ethnic Studies can make a significant contribution 

by adhering to the following eight basic principles:   

2 

 
1) Working toward greater inclusivity. 

2) Furthering self-understanding. 

3) Developing a better understanding of others. 

4) Recognizing intersectionality.   

5) Pursuing greater justice and equality. 

6) Promoting self-empowerment for civic engagement. 

7) Supporting a community focus. 

8) Developing interpersonal communication. 

(1) Working toward greater inclusivity --- Assembly Bill No. 

2016 states that two of California’s educational core values 

should be equity and inclusiveness.  The Guidelines (page 2) are 

more specific, calling for Ethnic Studies to ‘‘be inclusive, 

creating space for all students regardless of race, ethnicity, 

class, gender, sexuality, or citizenship, to learn different 

perspectives.’’  As the 2019 Ethnic Studies Introduction added 

(page 23), ‘‘Thus, it is vital for teachers to engage a multitude 

of stories, narratives, sources, and contributions of everyone in 

America so that all students can see themselves as part and 

parcel of the grand American narrative.’’    

In other words, California Ethnic Studies should emphasize 

educational equity by being inclusive of all students, regardless 

of their backgrounds.  This means incorporating the experiences 

of a broad range of ethnic groups, while particularly clarifying 

the role of race and ethnicity in California and U.S. life.  Yet, 

due to curricular time constraints, difficult choices will have 

to be made at the district and classroom level.     

3 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In principle, Ethnic Studies should embrace all ethnic 

groups.  However, it should also be recognized that the Ethnic 

Studies movement of the 1960’s arose because of two particular 

circumstances.  First, over the course of California and U.S. 

history, certain ethnic groups had been targeted by oppressive, 

demeaning, and marginalizing treatment, sometimes by government 

itself.  Second, the school curriculum and textbooks had 

traditionally minimized the role and presence of women and people 

of color.  In brief, the Ethnic Studies movement arose because of 

historical exclusion and pursued greater inclusion.  Therefore, 

while Ethnic Studies should address ethnicity in the broadest 

sense, it should devote special emphasis to the varying 

experiences of people of color.   

(2) Furthering self-understanding --- The Guidelines (page 2) 

call for pedagogies to ‘‘validate students’ lived experience.’’  

Not every student has a strong sense of ethnic identity.  

However, all students have an ethnic heritage (or heritages) 

rooted in the histories of their ancestors.  Building from the 

concept of student-based inquiry, Ethnic Studies should provide 

an opportunity for all students to examine their own ethnic 

heritages.  Increasing numbers of student have multiple ethnic 

heritages.   

For example, this search can involve the exploration of 

students’ own family histories.  Through oral histories of family 

members and, where available, the use of family records, students 

can develop a better understanding of their place and the place 

of their ancestors in the ethnic trajectory of California and the 

4 

 
United States.  For students with non-English-speaking family 

members, this would also provide an opportunity to develop 

research skills in multiple languages.  However, educators should 

be sensitive to student and family privacy, while also 

recognizing that factors like adoption, divorce, and lack of 

access to family information may complicate this assignment for 

some students.   

(3) Developing a better understanding of others --- The 

essential and complementary flip-side of self-understanding is 

the understanding of others.  Ethnic Studies should not only help 

students explore their own backgrounds.  It should also help 

build bridges of intergroup understanding. 

This interethnic bridge-building can be furthered in various 

ways.  Obviously, it can be enhanced by exposing students to a 

wide variety of voices, stories, experiences, and perspectives 

through materials featuring people of myriad ethnic backgrounds.  

But bridge-building can also occur through the classroom sharing 

of students’ personal stories and family histories.  In this way 

students can simultaneously learn to understand ethnic 

differences while also identifying underlying commonalities. 

(4) Recognizing intersectionality --- To this point I have 

attempted to limit my use of educational and academic jargon.  

However, one concept is so basic to the understanding of human 

experience that there is no way to avoid its use.  That is the 

concept of intersectionality. 

Obviously, Ethnic Studies focuses on the role of race and 

ethnicity.  However, these are not the sole forces affecting 

5 

 
personal identity, group identification, and the course of human 

experience.  People, including students, are not only members of 

racial and ethnic groups.  They also belong to many other types 

of social groups.  These groups may be based on such factors as 

sex, religion, class, ability/disability, age, sexual 

orientation, gender identity, citizenship status, and language 

use (Assembly Bill No. 2016 states that 92 languages other than 

English are spoken throughout California).  

For each individual, these multiple social categories 

converge in a unique way.  That confluence of groups is sometimes 

called intersectionality.  Those myriad categories influence, but 

do not necessarily determine, one’s life trajectory.  They also 

may influence how a person is perceived and treated by others. 

To some degree, each person’s individuality and identity are 

the result of intersectionality.  The lens of intersectionality 

helps both to explore the richness of human experience and to 

highlight the variations that exists within ethnic diversity.  By 

highlighting intragroup variations, intersectionality can also 

challenge group stereotyping and polarization.     

(5) Pursuit of justice and equality --- Ethnic Studies did 

not arise in a vacuum.  It arose with the intent of giving voice 

to stories long silenced, including stories of injustice, 

marginalization, and discrimination, as well as stories of those 

who became part of our nation in different ways, such as through 

slavery, conquest, colonization, and immigration.  Ethnic Studies 

should address those experiences with both honesty and nuance, 

drawing upon multiple perspectives.  Ethnic Studies should also 

6 

 
examine individual and collective efforts to challenge and 

overcome inequality and discriminatory treatment. 

The Guidelines specify (page 2) that Ethnic Studies should 

promote ‘‘critical thinking and rigorous analysis’’ of ‘‘systems 

of oppression.’’  They also indicate (page 2) that Ethnic Studies 

should ‘‘encourage cultural understanding of how different groups 

have struggled and worked together.’’ 

The exploration of injustice and inequality should not 

merely unearth the past.  It should also create a better 

understanding of dissimilar and unequal ethnic trajectories in 

order to strive for a future of greater equity and inclusivity.  

In the pursuit of justice and equality, Ethnic Studies should 

help students comprehend the various manifestations of racism and 

other forms of ethnic bigotry, discrimination, and 

marginalization, as well as the role that students, both now and 

as adults, can play individually and collectively in challenging 

these inequity-producing forces.   

(6) Promoting self-empowerment for civic engagement --- The 

Guidelines (page 1) call for the promotion of ‘‘the values of 

civic engagement and civic responsibility’’ as well as ‘‘self and 

collective empowerment (page 2).’’  In striving for these goals, 

the Ethnic Studies Introduction (page 18) recommends the 

inclusion of ‘‘a community engagement/action project that allows 

for students to use their knowledge and voice to affect social 

transformation in their community.’’  In other words, Ethnic 

Studies should help students become more engaged locally and 

7 

 
develop into effective civic participants, better able to 

contribute to constructive social change.  

The promotion of empowerment through Ethnic Studies can 

occur in various ways.  It can help students become more astute 

in critically analyzing documents, historical events, and 

multiple perspectives.  It can help students learn to discuss 

difficult issues, particularly when race and ethnicity are 

important factors.  It can help students learn to present their 

ideas in strong, compelling, jargon-free language.   

It can help students assess various strategies for bringing 

about change.  It can provide students with opportunities to 

experiment with different change strategies, while evaluating the 

strengths and limitations of each approach.  In short, through 

Ethnic Studies students can develop civic participation skills, a 

greater sense of self empowerment, and a deeper commitment to 

life-long civic engagement.  

(7) Supporting a community focus --- In terms of ethnic 

composition, California school districts vary widely.  In 

response to this variation, Assembly Bill No. 2016 calls for 

school districts ‘‘to adapt their courses to reflect the pupil 

demographics in their communities.’’  In short, when it comes to 

Ethnic Studies, one size does not fit all.   

Ethnic Studies in all California districts should address 

the basic contours of national and statewide ethnic experiences.  

This includes major events and phenomena that have shaped our 

diverse ethnic trajectories.  However, individual school 

districts may also choose to enrich their approach to Ethnic 

8 

 
Studies by also devoting special attention to ethnic groups that 

have been significantly present in their own communities. 

By shaping Ethnic Studies to include a focus on local ethnic 

groups, districts can enhance learning opportunities through 

student-based inquiry into the local community.  Such research 

can draw on multiple sources, such as local records, census 

material, survey results, and media coverage.  It can also 

involve oral history, providing voice for members of different 

ethnic communities and allowing students to engage multiple 

ethnic perspectives.  This local focus can also create additional 

opportunities for civic engagement, such as working with city 

government or presenting to school boards. 

(8) Developing interpersonal communication --- Achieving the 

preceding principles will require one additional capability: 

effective communication.  The Ethnic Studies Introduction (page 

13) points to the importance of Ethnic Studies in helping 

students develop the ability ‘‘to effectively and powerfully 

read, write, speak, think critically, and engage in school.’’   

Particularly considering California’s extensive diversity, 

Ethnic Studies should help build effective communication across 

ethnic differences.  This includes the ability to meet, discuss, 

and analyze sometimes hot-button topics.  In other words, 

students should learn to participate in difficult dialogues.  

Ethnic Studies should help students learn to communicate 

more effectively and constructively with students of other 

backgrounds.  It should help them develop the ability to 

communicate with power and clarity, to interact with civility, to 

9 

 
listen attentively, and to critically consider new ideas and 

perspectives.  It should also encourage students to be willing to 

modify their positions in the light of new evidence and 

compelling arguments. 

To enhance interpersonal communication, particularly among 

students of varying ethnic backgrounds, a number of topics need 

to be addressed.  For example, there are expressions used within 

an ethnic group that may be out-of-bounds when used by those 

outside of that group.  Students also need to develop a nuanced 

use of group labels, even when group members may disagree on 

their preferred labels and even though in-group preferences may 

change over time. 

Even the terms ‘‘race’’ and ‘‘ethnicity’’ present challenges.  

What do they mean?  How do they relate to each other?  How has 

our understanding of that relationship changed over time?  How is 

this relationship reflected in public documents, such as the U.S. 

census?  Ethnic Studies should help students address these and 

other fundamental issues that complicate intergroup communication 

and understanding. 

Conclusion 

Ethnic Studies should help bring students and communities 

together.  This does not mean glossing over differences, avoiding 

difficult issues, or resorting to clichés about how we are all 

basically alike.  It should do so by simultaneously doing three 

things: addressing ethnic experiences and differences as real and 

unique; building greater understanding and communication across 

10 

 
 
ethnic differences; and revealing underlying commonalities that 

can bind by bringing individuals and groups together.     

By operating on the basis of these eight principles, 

statewide Ethnic Studies can become a venue for developing a 

deeper understanding of the opportunities and challenges that 

come with ethnic diversity.  It should advance the cause of 

equity and inclusivity, foster self-understanding, build 

intergroup and intragroup bridges, enhance civic engagement, and 

further a sense of human commonality.  In this way, Ethnic 

Studies can help build stronger communities, a more equitably 

inclusive state, and a more just nation.  

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
