November 4, 2019 

Superintendent Tony Thurmond 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
California Department of Education   
1430 N. Street  
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond   
President  
State Board of Education  
1430 N. Street  
Sacramento, CA 95814   

Dear Superintendent Thurmond and State Board President Darling-Hammond,  

California high school students deserve an opportunity to learn the role of ethnicity, race and 

religion in the life of all of its citizens, including those previously ignored. 

The  draft  Ethnic  Studies  Model  Curriculum  would  not  achieve  that  goal.  It  lacks  multicultural 
competency  and  nuance.  It  advances  a narrow  scope  of  study and  does  not  reflect  California’s 
diverse population. 

AB  2016,  authored  by  former  Assemblymember  Luis  Alejo,  was  approved  by  the  California 

state legislature and signed by Governor Brown in September 2016. 

AB 2016 notes that “the model curriculum shall be written as a guide to allow school districts to 
adapt their courses to reflect the pupil demographics in their communities.”  The draft curriculum does 
not meet this requirement set forth in the law. 

Some supporters of the current draft curriculum note that ethnic studies traditionally has been 
and should continue to be about African-Americans, Native Americans, Latinos/Chicanos, and Asian-
Americans. However, the draft curriculum includes more than the aforementioned communities. If the 
curriculum  is  committed  to  including  the  experiences  of  ethnic  groups  beyond  these  four 
groups, then those drafting the curriculum should not be allowed to cherry-pick communities 
without public scrutiny.  

The  four  communities  should  be  highlighted,  given  their  past  experiences  of  systematic 
marginalization  and  oppression.  In  that  spirit,  the  historically  ignored  and  overlooked  multi-
generational  experiences  of  the  minority  communities,  including  those  of  Armenians,  Assyrians, 
Hellenes, Hindus, Koreans, and Mizrahi, Sephardic, and Ashkenazi Jews, and others, should also be 
taught. Inclusiveness should be a paramount principle. 

Specifically, the curriculum should incorporate the experiences of demographically significant 
communities across California whose cultural, economic, and civic contributions to the benefit of the 
state has been historically overlooked.  

Since the model curriculum is intended to help districts implement courses, we believe offering 
additional  sample  course  models  will  best  meet  the  goals  laid  out  in  AB  2016  and  in  the  Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moving  forward,  we  hope  to  see  more  transparency  and  less  political  bias  in  both  the 
development  of  the  curriculum  and  the  appointment  of  individuals  to  the  relevant  bodies  involved  in 
the process.  

Thank you for your attention to this important matter. 

Sincerely, 

Richard S. Hirschhaut 
Los Angeles Director  
American Jewish Committee  

Dr. James F. Dimitriou 
President 
American Hellenic Council 

Rabbi Serena Eisenberg  
Northern California Director  
American Jewish Committee   

Hyepin Im 
President and CEO 
Faith and Community Empowerment  

Nora Hovsepian, Esq.  
Chair 
Armenian National Committee of America –
Western Region  

Samir Kalra, Esq. 
Managing Director 
Hindu American Foundation 

Mihran Toumajan 
Western Region Director 
Armenian Assembly of America 

Eunice Hur Song, Esq. 
Executive Director 
Korean American Coalition  

Ramond Takhsh 
President 
Assyrian American Association of Southern 
California 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
