From: Nicholas Martinez  
Sent: Sunday, December 1, 2019 11:09 PM 
To: IQC  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] In regards to AB-2016, 

12/1/2019 

To all involved at the Instructional Quality Commission, 

            I am writing to you in hopes that this letter may prove to help be a voice of the people 

concerned with the direction of AB-2016. I am currently in my junior year at California State 

University, Stanislaus in Turlock, California. I hope to become an educational counselor after 

receiving my masters degree. I intend for this letter to not be a criticism but a plea for the board 

to become more transparent and open with how the revision of the Ethnic Studies coursework 

will be conducted. I, and many others, are very pleased with the bill being passed as it is a step in 

the right direction for a more informed and culturally enriched California though the first 

proposed variant of the curriculum has been met with some backlash. This letter serves to be a 

reminder of what the public has commented towards in regards to how this revised curriculum 

should be handled. 

            As it stands, AB-2016 states that the IQC is to “develop… a model curriculum in ethnic 

studies, and would encourage each school district and charter school that maintains any of grades 

9 to 12, inclusive, that does not otherwise offer a standards-based ethnic studies curriculum to 

offer a course of study in ethnic studies based on the model curriculum.” and while this is a 

massive success for the educational quality of California, a clause in Section 2, which denotes, 

“The model curriculum shall be written as a guide to allow school districts to adapt their courses 

to reflect the pupil demographics in their communities.” seems to almost fail the original goal of 

this bill. To elaborate, what is being introduced right now is far too flexible and fails to meet the 

standard of introducing Ethnic Studies in a qualitative light. By allowing school districts to alter 

 
the content they choose to share and not giving a clear and concise curriculum, the bill runs the 

risk of allowing these school districts to neglect minority groups that are underrepresented. And, 

while this is a step in the right direct, it is still not the correct path to take and we should consider 

that the intent of the bill is to be more inclusive and introduce ethnic studies as a whole instead 

of selectively choosing who to include based purely off of a census. By adapting the courses to 

reflect majority pupil demographics we neglect the minority that go underrepresented. 

Neglecting even one child in an “all-inclusive” education is failing to do the job we set out to 

achieve. 

            Many have complained about the content of the first draft of the new curriculum and it 

has already been deemed too anti-sematic and negligent of particular ethnic groups including 

groups comprised of African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Latinos and Native Americans as 

well as the Jewish and Muslim populations. It’s incredibly important to acknowledge that those 

who share a similar culture socialize with one another while ostracizing those that they may not 

understand. In the current social climate with mass shootings and aggravated assault you can see 

a stark trend that involved people of different cultural backgrounds attacking and terrorizing one 

another. I firmly believe this is because of a lack of understanding. The goal of this bill should be 

to celebrate one another's' cultures rather than picking those most represented already. 

            While this letter may not meet the eyes of many on the board, if any, I hope the message 

is clear to whoever reads it. The youth of California need to celebrate one another, and this 

includes the small demographic outliers within these school districts. I ask that you strongly 

consider just who is being represented in this new curriculum and ask yourself, “Is this enough?” 

Thank you for your time, Nicholas Martinez 

             
