December 2, 2019 

The Honorable Gavin Newsom 
Governor, State of California   
1303 10th Street, Suite 1173   
Sacramento, CA 95814  

The Honorable Tony Thurmond 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
1430 N. Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Governor Newsom and Superintendent Thurmond, 

We  write  with  concern  about  the  revision  process  for  California’s  proposed  ethnic  studies  model 
curriculum (ESMC) and urge you to press the California Department of Education (CDE) to develop 
this curriculum in the same open and transparent manner it does for all other instructional materials. 

Shared Concerns 

Governor Newsom, you said in August that “we are united in our resolve to make sure the [ESMC] 
advisory  committee  draft  is  only  that,  a  draft,  that  will  be  substantially  amended,”  and  that  it  “will 
never see the light of day.”1 

Superintendent Thurmond, you said in August that "greater balance was needed in the curriculum 
[and that] the CDE will pursue all options to correct the issues, including ...starting a new draft. Edits 
will be recommended with the potential of additional writers and ethnographers being utilized [and] 
all recommended revisions will be reviewed at the next IQC meeting on September 20, 2019.”2 

SBE and CDE’s Promises 

State  Board  of  Education  President  Linda  Darling-Hammond  made  similar  comments  and 
commitments in her August 8 letter in the Los Angeles Times and September 29 EdSource statement 
as did Deputy Superintendent Gregson in interviews this summer. 

1 https://www.jweekly.com/2019/08/23/in-face-to-face-with-gov-newsom-strong-support-for-jewish-
concerns/  
2 https://www.cde.ca.gov/nr/ne/yr19/yr19rel57.asp  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hearing these and others’ concerns, on September 16 the CDE announced in a press release the 
next steps that appeared to be premised on an open, fair, and transparent process.3 (See text of full 
press release below). 

CDE’s Actions and Inactions 

Last  June,  a  month  after  the  IQC  instructed  the  CDE  to  release  the  draft  ESMC  for  public 
comment, CDE posted it on a webpage embedded 4 levels into its website. CDE did not inform the 
public  that  it  was  seeking  comments:  it  did  not  issue  a  press  release,  it  did  not post  a  notice  in 
the "What's New" section of its website, and it did not post or Tweet about it in its social media feeds. 

CDE advertised the public comment period only after the Wall Street Journal published a long, highly 
critical piece about the draft ESMC. 

In  the  IQC’s  September  20  Agenda,  the  CDE  initially  set  aside  a  full  day  (9  am  to  5  pm)  for 
“Discussion on the Draft ESMC” and the 20,245 comments IQC received.  CDE cut it to a two hour 
“listening” session, precluding any meaningful public discussion or deliberation by the IQC. 

We were surprised on October 10 to receive an IQC listserv notification informing us that CDE had 
selected “experts” who would hold a public discussion in Sacramento five days later and that only 
those attending in person (or who RSVPed in advance for a webcast) could observe.  No video of 
the panel is publicly available.   

We  wrote  to  Superintendent  Thurmond  and  Deputy  Superintendent  Gregson  about  the  panel 
discussion the day it was announced.  (See October 10 communication below.)  Receiving no reply, 
three weeks later we sent another letter to them noting, in part, that all the panelists whom the CDE 
selected  were  individuals  that  recommended  the  first  draft  of  the  ESMC.    (See  November  1 
communication below.)  One of the six panelists, the ESMC Advisory Committee Co-Chair, shared 
that she is already teaching her students the draft ESMC and using its contents in the professional 
development sessions she leads. None of the panelists shared the concerns of, or addressed, the 
20,000+ comments the IQC received. 

Since CDE selected these panelists without public participation or input, AJC and our partners asked 
the CDE again for an open, transparent and fair process.   

In  her  November  7  response  to  us,  Deputy  Superintendent  Gregson  did  not  address  the  lack  of 
transparency but said that: 

•  CDE selected panelists who had “experience” with Ethnic Studies (demurring on the degree 

of their expertise in the subject matter). 

3 https://www.cde.ca.gov/nr/ne/yr19/yr19rel62.asp  
2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

“WestEd is conducting feedback sessions with teachers and administrators [to] provide us 
with an  opportunity to  hear the  resources  needed for  the  successful  implementation  of  an 
Ethnic Studies course or program” – i.e., these sessions will not assist in developing the draft 
ESMC content but rather speed its implementation.   

By  chance,  on  November  14  AJC  learned  from  someone’s  personal  Twitter  post  that  WestEd  (i) 
asked the ESMC Advisory Committee members – whose work supposedly ended with the first draft 
of the ESMC – to return and participate in these feedback sessions, and (ii) privately invited others 
to nominate people to participate with a November 15 deadline.  Inexplicably, Ms. Gregson failed to 
share any of this in her November 7 letter to us.  The CDE also did not email the IQC listserv, did 
not post on its website, and did not inform its social media followers that nominations were being 
collected.  These model curriculum advisory members crafted the controversial draft and, as a group, 
signed a petition pressing the CDE not to significantly change it.      

Call To Action 

It  is  unfortunate  that  the  CDE  has  employed  a  process  that  differs  so  substantially  from  its  own 
instructional materials transparency and procedural rules.  That, along with ignoring your direction 
and the 20,000+ comments that detail why the draft ESMC deeply concerns Californians, will most 
assuredly produce a flawed revised ESMC draft. 

We urge you to press that the CDE treat the ESMC as seriously as it does the adoption of all other 
instructional  materials  --  with  open  and  full  transparency  regarding  its  selection  of  experts  and 
advisors  and  with  open  deliberations,  ethical  walls  placed  between  the  ESMC  writers  and  its 
reviewers, published dates and deadlines, and videotaped sessions that are publicly available.  

California high school students deserve an opportunity to learn the role of ethnicity, race, and religion 
in the life of all its citizens, including the backgrounds of the children whom the ESMC writers and 
advisory committee members ignored in the first ESMC draft.   

Our students need a model curriculum in a subject as vital as this that has multicultural competency 
and nuance, does not advance a narrow scope of study, and does a service to California’s diverse 
population.   

CDE’s current path will not address these deficiencies unless action is taken now.   

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you for your attention to this important matter.  

Sincerely,  

Serena Eisenberg                                                 Richard S. Hirschhaut 
AJC Northern California Director                          AJC Los Angeles Director 

CC:  
American Hellenic Council (AHC) 
Armenian Assembly of America (AAA) 
Armenian National Committee of America – Western Region (ANCA-WR) 
Assyrian American Association of Southern California (AAASC) 
FACE (Faith and Community Empowerment) 
Hindu American Foundation (HAF) 
Korean American Coalition (KAC) 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
                                       
 
 
 
California Department of Education News Release 

Release: #19-62 

September 16, 2019 

The California Department of Education Outlines Path for Revising and 

Improving Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

SACRAMENTO—State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond announced today that the 
California Department of Education (CDE) has outlined a path to revise and improve the ethnic studies 
model curriculum draft. 

The next step in the process is for the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) to meet regarding the draft on 
Friday, September 20.The CDE is recommending that the IQC pause any action on the draft, take more time 
to revise the draft, and ultimately send it to the State Board of Education (SBE) for action in 2020. 

Last week the California State Legislature approved AB 114, extending the timeline for completion of the 
ethnic studies model curriculum draft through March 2021. The bill now awaits Governor Newsom’s 
signature. If the IQC acts to extend the timeline for completing the draft, the CDE anticipates taking the 
following steps: 

•  Holding feedback sessions with ethnic studies teachers, ethnologists, experts, and interested parties 

to get input on what might go into the draft. 

•  Consulting with ethnic studies experts on what might go into the draft including convening a panel 

discussion of experts. 

•  Holding listening sessions around the state to hear from the approximately 200 districts that have 

successfully implemented ethnic studies curriculums. 

Dr. Shirley Weber, Assemblymember and IQC member, has agreed to serve on the ethnic studies panel and 
consult with the CDE and SBE staff to complete the model draft curriculum. Weber is a 40-year educator of 
Africana Studies who has helped establish ethnic studies in K–12 curriculum throughout the State of 
California. 

To send suggestions for revisions to the curriculum, email ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. More information 
about the ethnic studies model curriculum can be found on the CDE Model Curriculum Projects web page. 

# # # # 

Tony Thurmond — State Superintendent of Public Instruction 
Communications Division, Room 5602, 916-319-0818, Fax 916-319-0100 

-------------- 
From: Stephanie Gregson <SGregson@cde.ca.gov>  
Sent: Thursday, November 7, 2019 5:13 PM 
To: Serena Eisenberg <eisenbergs@ajc.org>; Tony Thurmond 
<TThurmond@cde.ca.gov> 
Cc: Richard Hirschhaut <hirschhautr@ajc.org>; Siamak Kordestani 
<kordestanis@ajc.org>; Eran Hazary <hazarye@ajc.org>; Melanie Maron Pell 
<pellm@ajc.org>; Shanine Coats <SCoats@cde.ca.gov>; Cindy Quiralte 

5 

 
 
 
 
<CQuiralte@cde.ca.gov> 
Subject: RE: Follow up questions - we eagerly await your response 

Dear Serena, 

Thank you for your email. We are happy to provide you with an update on the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum.  

We selected the October 15, 2019 panel members based on their experience in Ethnic 
Studies either by being part of the historical movement, professors of Ethnic Studies, and 
those who have experience implementing Ethnic Studies in K–12 settings.  

There are at least three ways that we are seeking feedback on success and challenges in 
implementing Ethnic Studies in K–12.  

(1) WestEd is conducting feedback sessions with teachers and administrators. This is 

an opportunity for us to hear from practitioners who have and have not implemented 
Ethnic Studies in the K–12 setting. It will provide us with an opportunity to hear the 
resources needed for the successful implementation of an Ethnic Studies course or 
program. These feedback sessions will take place this Fall and Winter.  

(2) We will visit districts in California this Winter to view their program in action and 

discuss their curriculum development experience, challenges and successes.  Once 
we have a finalized list, we will share it on our IQC listserv.  

(3) Through public comment submitted during the development process of the Ethnic 

Studies Model Curriculum.  

As you know, Assembly Bill 114 extended the timeline for the completion of the model 
curriculum to March 2021.The writers of the first draft of the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum have completed their task. From this point, CDE staff will synthesize the 
learnings from the feedback sessions and listening visits, consultation with interested 
parties and experts, and feedback from the first 60-day public comment period and the 
ongoing revision process, into a revised draft which will contain recommendations to the 
Instructional Quality Commission (IQC). This draft will also be posted for public comment 
in 2020.  

We are currently in the process of revising the timeline of significant events to reflect the 
updated statute. It is important to note that any interested parties may provide specific 
feedback to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum at any time by sending an email to 
ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov.   

We are encouraging all interested parties to join the IQC listserv to stay up to date on 
topics related to Ethnic Studies. Anyone can join the IQC listserv by sending a blank email 
to: join-iqc@mlist.cde.ca.gov.  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Best,  
Stephanie Gregson 

Stephanie Gregson, Ed.D. 
Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction 
Instruction and Measurement Branch 
Executive Director, Instructional Quality Commission 
California Department of Education 
1430 N Street, Suite 5206 
Sacramento, CA 95814 
(916) 319-0812 

-------------- 

From: Serena Eisenberg <eisenbergs@ajc.org>  
Sent: Friday, November 1, 2019 2:49 PM 
To: Tony Thurmond <TThurmond@cde.ca.gov>; Stephanie Gregson 
<SGregson@cde.ca.gov> 
Cc: Richard Hirschhaut <hirschhautr@ajc.org>; Siamak Kordestani 
<kordestanis@ajc.org>; Eran Hazary <hazarye@ajc.org>; Melanie Maron Pell 
<pellm@ajc.org> 
Subject: Follow up questions - we eagerly await your response 

Dear Superintendent Thurmond and Deputy Superintendent Gregson: 

We write as a follow up to our letter and email on October 10, 2019 (below) in which we 
asked some questions about the Ethnic Studies panel discussion forum on October 15, 
2019 hosted by your office along with the California Department of Education.  We eagerly 
await your response and, in the meantime, have some additional questions about the 
process for revising the ethnic studies model curriculum (ESMC). 

Deputy Superintendent Gregson, we understood from your statement at the IQC meeting 
of September 20 and September 16 press release 
https://www.cde.ca.gov/nr/ne/yr19/yr19rel62.asp  that the process for revising and 
improving the curriculum would include a series of meetings with ethnic studies experts.  It 
appears that the people your office invited to present at the October 15 forum, which only 
included persons who support the current ESMC draft (one was the co-chair of the 
committee which wrote it), are the “expert panel " referenced in your communications.  As 
instructional materials, can't members of the public be permitted to apply to be experts 
who advise the CDE on the ethnic studies model curriculum? 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There remain many other pressing questions, including those in our October 10 email and 
the following: 

▪  What was the selection process to determine who constitutes the “expert panel” 

mentioned in your September 16, 2019 press release? 

▪  When and where are these sessions referenced in that press release going to be 
held: "feedback sessions with ethnic studies teachers, ethnologists, experts, and 
interested parties," and "listening sessions around the state to hear from the 
approximately 200 districts that have successfully implemented ethnic studies 
curriculums"? 

▪  What is the selection process for the drafters of the revision? And who are the 

drafters, if already chosen? 

▪  What is the timeline for completion? 
▪  And what and when is the process for both internal state and then public review? 

We hope that the process going forward will be transparent and inclusive, and conclude 
with a non-discriminatory curriculum that reflects and embraces the diversity of California’s 
students. 

Thank you in advance for any information you can provide, which will enable us to respond 
effectively to our constituents across the state. Of course, we would welcome the 
opportunity to meet with you in person and will follow up to explore a mutually 
convenient time. 

Sincerely, 

Serena Eisenberg                                                          Richard S. Hirschhaut 
AJC Northern California Director                            AJC Los Angeles Director 

CC: American Hellenic Council (AHC); Armenian Assembly of America (AAA); Armenian 
National Committee of America -- Western Region (ANCA-WR); Assyrian American 
Association of Southern California (AAASC); FACE (Faith and Community 
Empowerment);  Hindu American Foundation (HAF); Korean American Coalition (KAC) 

[PRIOR LETTER BELOW] 

From: Serena Eisenberg 
Sent: Friday, October 11, 2019 2:41 PM 
To: 'TThurmond@cde.ca.gov' <TThurmond@cde.ca.gov>; 'SGregson@cde.ca.gov' 
<SGregson@cde.ca.gov> 
Cc: Richard Hirschhaut (hirschhautr@ajc.org) <hirschhautr@ajc.org>; Siamak Kordestani 
<kordestanis@ajc.org>; Eran Hazary <hazarye@ajc.org>; Melanie Maron Pell 
<pellm@ajc.org> 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 
                                                                        
 
 
 
Subject: Questions regarding October 15th's Ethnic Studies Implementation panel 
discussion 

October 10, 2019 

Dear Superintendent Thurmond and Deputy Superintendent Gregson: 

We write for two reasons: 

First, to thank you for hosting October 15th's "Ethnic Studies Implementation" panel 
discussion.  This is certain to be an informative session for educators and parents across 
the state who want to learn what Ethnic Studies is.  There was not much advanced notice 
given for this meeting, however, so we hope CDE will post a video of the session on your 
YouTube channel as you do for other advisory panels.  That way teachers teaching 
Tuesday morning and others not able to attend on short notice can access the content 
easily too. (The notice was sent to IQC list serv subscribers on October 10 with an October 
14 RSVP deadline.) 

Separately, we are also writing to inquire about the "panel discussion of experts...on what 
might go into the draft" Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum mentioned in the CDE's 
September 16 press release (https://www.cde.ca.gov/nr/ne/yr19/yr19rel62.asp): 

•  Can you please provide us CDE's list of qualifications for serving on this expert panel? 
•  Can you please send us CDE's application form for this panel and the application 
deadline? 
•  Can you please send us the dates for the IQC and SBE public meetings that will be 
agendized for reviewing these applications and selecting the panelists, panelist training 
sessions, and when the panel's public discussions will be held? 

We appreciate your response to these questions. 

Thank you, 

Serena Eisenberg                                                        Rick Hirschhaut 
AJC Northern California Director                                AJC Los Angeles Director 

CC: American Hellenic Council (AHC); Armenian Assembly of America (AAA); Armenian 
National Committee of America -- Western Region (ANCA-WR); Assyrian American 
Association of Southern California (AAASC); FACE (Faith and Community 
Empowerment); Hindu American Foundation (HAF); Korean American Coalition (KAC) 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                   
 
 
 
 
 
