February 3, 2020  

Dear Members of the Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division, 

Allow me to begin by offering my sincere and deep appreciation for your commitment 
to make a difference.  AB 2016 attempts to create a more inclusive and diverse look at the 
political, social, and economic contributions of various groups. Thirty years ago, as a Social 
Studies Educator, I entered the classroom to do exactly the same thing.  I’ve been fortunate. 
Much  of  my  success  is  attributed  to  my  ability  to  transform  victimization  to  validation, 
trauma to trust, and pain to power- all while teaching social studies.   

When children see themselves in the content they are able to envision a future. On 
the other hand, children who are not taught about the contributions of others fall victim to 
stereotypes.  On January 11, 2017, Dylann Roof was sentenced to death.  He killed 8 African 
Americans in a church.  He is the youngest person to receive the death penalty for a hate 
crime. Why aren’t we incensed that he did this at such a young age? Did you ever think about 
his childhood?  What did he learn? What didn’t he learn? 

I submit the introduction in order to offer a very important perspective of the state’s 
efforts  to  create  an  “elective”  in  Ethnic  Studies.    Been  there-  done  that.  Remember  the 
60’s…Chicano  Studies,  African-American  studies?  As  an  African-American  Studies  major 
from Howard University and Fellow from Columbia University, I know what the real issues 
are in our classrooms.   I hope you and others will reconsider this “elective” initiative and 
realize  that  the  true  error  occurs  with  the  omission  of  multicultural  contributions  in  all 
disciplines.  “Electives” only perpetuate the SEGREGATION of content and people. Moreover, 
I contend that INTEGRATION did not heal wounds or unite individuals within school settings 
because we never integrated content.  In essence, minorities were placed in white classroom 
only  to  remain  omitted  from  the  content-  which  validated  concepts  of  superiority  and 
inferiority.  All children need to learn about the contributions of all those who helped build 
this country and their contributions should be addressed across all content areas, not simply 
the  students  who  “elect”  to  learn.  In  addition,  electives  are  a  high  school  dynamic-  and 
perspectives  about  race  and  inclusion  are  often  formed  much  earlier.  Dylann  Roof  had 
already spent his K-8 years under a confederate flag that flew over his school building until 
the state senate removed it- after 8 African-Americans were killed in that church. 

The  mere  segregation  of  the  content,  much  like  the  NAACP  awards  vs.  the  Oscars 
suggests that there are two Americas.   This is where schools and the nation keep failing.   We 

Florence Avognon 

Confronting America’s Childhood, Transforming Our Schools  

Novel Summary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
isolate  who we  acknowledge.  What message are you sending when  this powerful content 
about the contributions of minorities to this nation are SEGREGATED or an elective?  Will 
the student who would benefit the most even be able to take the course, or by high school 
will they even be interested in learning this content if they’ve spent years being invisible? As 
a juvenile court school teacher, many of my students are there because of self-esteem issues 
that manifest with criminality.  Most enter the room stating that they “hate history” or often 
feel  disenfranchised  and  angry  at  a  nation  that  has  labeled  and  excluded  their  ancestors.  
They are transformed when they see personal connections to the content.  When I reference 
those stories of how adversity created opportunity (Valentia-Mexican-Americans in WWII, 
Tuskegee Airmen, and Port Chicago 50), they are inspired to learn the system and to succeed 
by taking advantage of those political, social, and economic freedoms.  Non-minorities gain a 
new level of respect for other groups, and there is a true sense of equity in my classroom.   

The initiative should really demand that  the well-written standards, which already 
require diversity and inclusion, be thoroughly implemented and that teacher performance 
be  tied  to  this  expectation.  Moreover,  perhaps  we  should  rethink  our  teacher  education 
coursework  mandates-  given  the  true  power  and  influence  that  the  classroom  has  in 
designing our future.  I did not create any “new” stories when I entered my old high school 
in 1990, as an Educator. I looked at the standards and simply made  sure I told the whole 
story.  Thank you.  

Florence Avognon, 

California Teacher of the Year 2012    

Cc: State Board of Education (SBE) 
       Instructional Quality Commission  
       Luis Alejo, The Honorable Assemblymember 

Florence Avognon 

Confronting America’s Childhood, Transforming Our Schools  

Novel Summary 

 
 
 
 
 
