From: tedminster  
Sent: Friday, February 14, 2020 4:35 PM 
To: Shanine Coats  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save ethnic studies – don’t shut out Arab-American experience 

Dear Instructional Quality Commission Shanine Coats, 

I’m a constituent of yours and deeply concerned with reports that Arab American 
Studies may be cut from California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), under 
the false premise of it not being within the four racialized groups of Ethnic Studies.  

The field’s leaders of color, including the Association of Asian American Studies, Asian 
American Studies Department Chairs, and the Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition – are 
insisting Arab American Studies belongs in the curriculum, and that it remain.   

As is evident in the spirit of AB2016 legislation, the California Department of Education 
must respect communities of color, and have deference to Ethnic Studies professors 
and practitioners of color for this project. 

Efforts to undermine or water-down any critical components of the draft, and of Ethnic 
Studies as a field must be rejected.  

Exclusion of Arab immigrants, the stories of assimilation, resilience, diligence, 
resistance to discrimination, their building of active relationships internally & outwardly 
with others in the making of California ...would be an act of specific exclusion. 

Literature & documentation...on Mexicans, Armenians, African Americans, Chinese, 
Filipinos.. are necessarily part of the tapestry of the history of this state. 

Assimilationist histories already "leave out" too many.... Sikhs...among a few... 

A curriculum that allows exclusion would indicate that it is permitted to exclude a 
population from the tapestry of California. 
Such exclusion would be more than "inappropriate..".. 

I know you are well-aware of the targeted attacks on Arabs and Muslims by the Trump 
administration, and the demonization of the struggle of migrants and people of color 
throughout the United States. As a sanctuary state, California should continue to be a 
counterweight against that trend – not serve as a stamp of approval. 

Please add your voices to inclusion of Arabs & Arab Americans ...and please, do not 
bow to convenient pressue to exclude them from the California curriculum. 

Thank you for your consideration of this important issue. 

Sincerely, 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tom Edminster 
Pacifica, CA  

 
