February 27, 2020 

Governor Gavin Newsom      Superintendent Tony Thurmond      Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond 
State of  Calif ornia                  CA Department of  Education           President, State Board of   
1303  10th Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814           Sacramento, CA 95814                   1430  N. Street  

          1430  N. Street                                 Education  

    Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Governor Newsom, Superintendent Thurmond, and Dr. Darling-Hammond,   

We write on behalf of a large and diverse constituency across California to oppose 

the narrowing of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) announced by the Department 

of Education on  January 24, 2020. From the announcement, it appears that the ESMC will 

exclude many California ethnic minorities such as Armenians, Assyrians, Hellenes, Hindus, 

Koreans,  and  Mizrahi, Sephardic, and Ashkenazi Jews, among others.  Such exclusion is 

inconsistent with AB 2016, the assurances made after the release of the unacceptable first 

draft of the ESMC, and is contrary to California and federal law.  For these reasons, and as 
expressed more fully below, we urge the State of California to adopt a fully inclusive, multi -

cultural  curriculum  that  recognizes  the  ethnic  and  cultural history and contributions of al l 

Californians. 

Over 18,000 official comments were submitted criticizing the 2019 draft of the ESMC, 

which  was  replete  with  highly  politicized  material  and  cultural  misrepresentations.    As 

Governor Newsom noted at the time, the 2019 draft was offensive to some communities and 
needed to be significantly revised.1  We appreciate that the Department of Education has 
now  signaled  that  the  discriminatory  material will be removed. But, to the say the least, it 

would be insufficient simply to remove the obviously biased aspects of the initial draft.  It 

would  be  worse  to  exclude  other  ethnicities  from  the  curriculum,  as  the  January  24th 
teachers  to  have 
announcement 

indicated,  and  only  provide  vague  direction 

to 

“conversations” about the diverse cultural backgrounds of California students.2  We urge that 

1Governor Newsom: "It’s going to be taken care of...We are united in our resolve to make sure the advisory 
committee draft ...will be substantially amended. And let me also apologize on behalf of the state for the anxiety 
that this produced. It was offensive in so many ways..." https://www.jweekly.com/2019/08/23/in -face-to-face-with-
gov-newsom-strong-support-for-jewish-concerns/  
State Board of Education leaders: "We must arrive at a curriculum that ...fully aligns with California’s values of 
inclusivity, empathy, accuracy, and honesty." https://edsource.org/2019/california-needs-time-to  
“A model curriculum should be accurate, free of bias, appropriate for all learners in our diverse state and align 
with Governor Newsom’s vision of a California  For All..” https://www.cde.ca.gov/be/pn/nr/yr19sberel01.asp     
2 State  Superintendent Thurmond stated, “…while we are recommending to the IQC [Instructional Quality 
Commission] and the State Board that it [the ESMC]  be grounded in those four groups, there will be opportunit ies 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                     
 
 
these diverse narratives be made a central part of the curriculum, subject to the same public 

vetting  as  all  other  California  instructional  materials  and  not  treated  as  supplemental  or 

optional material. 

To be clear, we support the ESMC effort to fully address the historic and present-day 

experience of African American, Asian American, Chicano and Latino and Native Americans. 

This is especially so given the past and ongoing experience of these groups with systemic 

racism  and  marginalization,  including  in  mainstream  high  school  curricula.    But,  fully 

addressing  these  issues  should  not come at the expense of, and by marginalizing, other 

ethnic groups. As AB 2016 so clearly states, the broader term “ethnicity” (not jus t race or skin 

color) should be the criteria used when deciding which groups to feature in the ESMC. A 

curriculum  based  on  a  narrowly  focused  and  politicized  approach  consciously  and 

erroneously  divides  Californians  into  “people  of  color,”  on  the  one  hand,   and  all  other 

supposedly ethnic and non-ethnic whites, on the other. California legislators envisioned a 

multi-cultural approach to ethnic studies in which the focus is for students to gain a deeper 
understanding of American society and its diverse ethnic composition and to develop respect 

for cultural diversity in our pluralistic society.   

Based on a review of the legislative record with the support of counsel, we believe 

that inclusivity was a vital principle of the legislature’s intention when they passed AB 2016 . 

This was not reflected in the more narrowly focused curriculum, which the CDE released in 

2019 and appears ready to bring again with limited and inadequate revisions. As you know, 

AB 2016 calls for the state’s educational standards to be “guid ed by core values of equity, 

inclusiveness, and universally high expectations” and notes the objective of preparing pupils 

“with an appreciation for the contributions of multiple cultures.”3  

Governor Newsom has outlined a vision of a “California for All”  in which inclusiveness 

is a paramount principle. In that spirit, we are committed to working with you to incorporate 

the full spectrum of experiences of ethnic communities to ensure that California students 
receive a comprehensive education about the full ethnic diversity of the State. 

to have conversations about the experience and struggle of other groups.“ 
https://www.cde.ca.gov/re/wn/rf/edtalks-ep8.asp 
3 AB-2016  Pupil instruction: ethnic studies. Signed into law September 13, 2016. 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160AB2016   

2 

 
 
 
Sincerely,  

Rabbi Serena Eisenberg  
Northern California Director  
American Jewish Committee   

Dr. James F. Dimitriou 
President 
American Hellenic Council 

Richard S. Hirschhaut 
Los Angeles Director  
American Jewish Committee  

Hyepin Im 
President and CEO 
Faith and Community Empowerment  

Nora Hovsepian, Esq. 
Chair 
Armenian National Committee of America 
–Western Region  

Samir Kalra, Esq. 
Managing Director 
Hindu American Foundation 

Mihran Toumajan 
Western Region Director 
Armenian Assembly of America 

Eunice Hur Song, Esq. 
Executive Director 
Korean American Coalition  

Peter Warda  
President  
Assyrian American Association of 
Southern California 

Sarah Levin  
Executive Director  
Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and 
North Africa (JIMENA)

3 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
