From: cshamban>  
Sent: Thursday, February 6, 2020 8:23 AM 
To: Shanine Coats  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save ethnic studies – don’t shut out Arab-American experience 

Dear Instructional Quality Commission Shanine Coats, 

I’m a constituent of yours and deeply concerned with reports that Arab American 
Studies may be cut from California’s Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), under 
the false premise of it not being within the four racialized groups of Ethnic Studies. The 
ongoing attacks by the Trump Administration against Muslims is another reason why 
Arab American studies must be included. The Arab-American community has a long 
history in this country about which most people are unaware. The ignorance of the 
Trump administration continues to be clear that it supports ongoing of settler colonial 
activities  of the Israeli government policies. For example, the most recent "Peace Plan". 
This plan had no input from Palestinians and codified the actions of the Israeli 
government to allow settlement in the Occupied Territories which is against International 
law. 

The field’s leaders of color, including the Association of Asian American Studies, Asian 
American Studies Department Chairs, and the Save CA Ethnic Studies Coalition – are 
insisting Arab American Studies belongs in the curriculum, and that it remain.   

As is evident in the spirit of AB2016 legislation, the California Department of Education 
must respect communities of color, and have deference to Ethnic Studies professors 
and practitioners of color for this project. I am very concerned that a group is able to  
block the experience of Arab Americans from the curriculum. Their ongoing experience 
of racism, disinformation, and  

Efforts to undermine or water-down any critical components of the draft, and of Ethnic 
Studies as a field must be rejected.  

I know you are well-aware of the targeted attacks on Arabs and Muslims by the Trump 
administration, and the demonization of the struggle of migrants and people of color 
throughout the United States. As a sanctuary state, California should continue to be a 
counterweight against that trend – not serve as a stamp of approval. 

Sincerely, 
Cindy Shamban 
Berkeley, CA  

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
