From: Bhajneet Singh 
Sent: Tue 3/24, 1:36 PM 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Bhajneet Singh and I have been a resident of California since I was born, 1981. 
I live in La Canada and work in Los Angeles. I have 3 children, ages 5, 3, and 2. My eldest 
will be starting kinder at Poly Technic school in Pasadena.  

I grew up in La Canada and went to Paradise Canyon Elementary and then on to La 
Canada High School. In our school, I was the only Sikh kid and there was absolutely no 
education about the Sikhs. I experienced name calling, bullying and other forms of 
taunting while at school and strongly feel that with education we can make sure other 
kids don't face the same issues.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of 
California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a meaningful 
way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition found 
that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to reiterate that 
the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model curriculum in a 
meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in reducing bullying and 
harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the 

Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus 
on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to 
balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the 
context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Bhajneet singh 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
