From: Deepraj Kaur Randhawa 
Sent: Thursday 3/26, 11:32 AM 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Deepraj Kaur Randhawa and I have been a resident of California my entire life, 
since 1978. I live in Roseville CA and I am a dentist that is currently a stay at home mother. 
I have two children, a thirteen year old daughter that is in 8th grade at Chilton Middle school 
in Roseville City School District and a seven year old son in the 2nd grade at Rocklin 
Academy Gateway in Newcastle Elementary School District. 

As someone who is born and raised in California and someone who’s entire K-12 education 
was done in the public school classrooms of Ceres Unified School District, I have been 
greatly disappointed in the total 
lack of representation of Sikhs and Sikhism in all discussions and lessons regarding religion 
and ethnic studies. I never felt included or represented when my teachers would have 
lessons that discussed various religions or ethnicities. I never felt that I had a voice, it was 
like no one could see me, but I’ve always been here. Now as my children are in public 
school in California, going through the same lack of representation, I feel sad that nothing 
has changed in 41 years. An example that sticks out in my mind is that both my children 
learned about various religions in their 1st grade curriculum and nowhere was Sikhism 
mentioned.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of 
California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a meaningful 
way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition found 
that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to reiterate that 
the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model curriculum in a 
meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in reducing bullying and 
harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the 

Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus 
on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to 
balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the 
context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Deepraj Kaur Randhawa  

 
 
 
