From: Satinder Malhi  
Sent: Saturday, March 28, 2020 2:20 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject:  Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee:  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

As a lifelong Californian, I am a proud product of our K-12 public school system. I received my 
Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science from the University of California Santa Cruz and my 
Masters in Public Administration from California State University East Bay. I previously worked 
in the CA State Legislature as a senior policy aide for nearly twelve years with a focus on a wide 
range of policy matters, including education.  

Throughout my schooling, I have been disappointed by the lack of accurate and meaningful 
depictions of Sikhs and Sikhism. My disappointment has now been further compounded after 
recently learning that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of California’s history 
and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a meaningful way in the initial Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum draft currently before you for consideration. 

As you may or may not know, there are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by 
the Sikh Coalition found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I 
wish to reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in reducing 
bullying and harassment, something which I was sadly the subject of both in middle and high 
schools.     

Specifically, I would like to respectfully request the following:  

1) A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum. 

2) More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus on the 
myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to balance the current 
language’s focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 
Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, specifying 
the details of these requests. I would respectfully ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  Thank you.  

All the Best,  

-Satinder S. Malhi  
Martinez, CA  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
