From: Kiroun Saluja 
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 10:11 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: Sikh Inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name Kiroun Saluja and I have been a resident of California since 2013. I live in 
Walnut Creek and work as a retail consultant. I am a mother to three children (grades 
1st, 3rd and 5th) who attend Tice Creek School in the Walnut Creek School District.  

My three children follow the Sikh faith and maintain their unshorn hair, a major tenet of 
Sikhism.  My 1st grade son, wears a "patka" (small turban) to keep his hair tidy.  My son has 
been ridiculed because of his long hair and patka.  He has even had his patka removed from his 
head.  We have sought the help of teachers and the principal but not much has changed. 

There is no education at the school level to teach the students about different faiths, let alone 
Sikhism.  There is no understanding of the Sikh faith and tenets. The school just encourages 
students to "respect diversity".  This is not enough. 

My husband and I have visited all our our childrens' classrooms at least 1-2 times a year to 
educate their classmates on Sikhism in an effort to curb the ignorance and bullying.  Again, this 
is not enough. 

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 

the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Kiroun Saluja 

 
 
 
