From: Jaskeet Raika 
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 5:38 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Sikh Inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Curriculum Model 

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Jaskeet Kaur Raika and I live in Fresno, California. I am currently finishing my last 
semester at California State University, Fresno as a Business - Computer Information Systems 
major.  

Though my major field of study is not within the ethnic studies department, I have always had a 
passion to learn about the histories, traditions, and migration of different cultures. I was able to 
pursue that curiosity through women's studies and Asian American studies 
courses/presentations on campus. It is because of my experience in those courses, combined 
with my experience in public, private and charter schools before college, where I can say-with 
certainty- that there has been a complete lack of Sikh representation in my education. I have 
read/seen the work "Sikh" in a classroom twice in all my 17 years as a student, and in neither 
instance had it been carried beyond a sentence. California is home to one of the largest 
populations of Sikhs outside of Punjab, India, and the institution of Fresno State has a very large 
Sikh presence in all fields of study. It is unfortunate that Sikh Americans do not have the same 
option to learn about our history at an elementary, high school or collegiate level. It is equally 
unfortunate that students on campus complete ethnic studies without ever learning about Sikh 
History - especially in spaces where we are large in numbers.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of 
California's history and economy since the early 1900's, is not represented in a meaningful way 
in the Ethnic Studie Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,000 Sikh in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition found that 
turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to reiterate that the 
inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model curriculum in a meaningful 
way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and reducing bullying and harassment.  

Specifically, I request:  
1. A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum.  
2. More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus on the 
myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to balance the current 
language's focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 
Islamophobia.  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours Sincerely,  

Jaskeet Raika  

 
 
 
