From: Saran Mandair  
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 9:22 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Saran Mandair 
Subject:  Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Saran Mandair and I have been a resident of California since 1999.  I live in 
San Jose and work as Vice President in DocuSign. I have two children who attend 
Challenger School in San Jose unified school district in Grades 6 & 7.  

My son and daughter have long hair to adhere to their Sikh religion. Due to lack of 
awareness they have been teased and bullied about their long hair as they look different 
than their classmates. Including Sikh studies will hello educate and provide insight to 
their background which will raise awareness and potentially mitigate bullying that they 
encountered.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 

the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Saran Mandair 

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
