From: Gurdeep Shergill  
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 4:05 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Gurdeep Shergill 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee, 
I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record. 
My name is Gurdeep Shergill and I have been a resident of California since 1994.  I live 
in Fresno, California and work as an educator. I have 2 children who attend Rio Vista 
Middle School in Central Unified School District in grades 7 and 8. My younger daughter 
will be starting kindergarten next year. 
I have attended California schools and haven’t learned anything about Sikhism or Sikhs’ 
contributions to California.  I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which 
has been an integral part of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is 
not represented in a meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft. 
There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.  
Specifically, I request: 
A detailed lesson plans about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the 
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 
More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus on 
the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to balance 
the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the context of 
post-9/11 Islamophobia. 
The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf. 
Yours sincerely, 
Gurdeep Shergill, M.A. 

  
