From: Isherpreet Kaur  
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 11:59 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Naindeep Chann 
Subject: Fwd: Request for email comments - CA ethnic studies 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Isherpreet Kaur, I live in Sacramento California, I currently attend American River 
College in my last semester prior to transferring to an undecided CSU.  

I would like to start my letter with a quote that was found in the back glossary of my seventh 
grade history textbook; "Sikhism was founded 500 years ago by Guru Nanak Dev Ji and is a 
monotheistic religion."  

Just this one sentence in the very back of a textbook. Could you imagine this being the first time 
your community is mentioned in a textbook? Could you imagine one of the largest communities 
having only one sentence being your "inclusion", not by the teacher, not in our lesson plan, I 
found this through my own curiosity and boredom in the class.  

I am writing to explain how much experience I have had regarding the education and inclusion 
of Sikh Americans in K-12 public school classrooms. To be short I can say little no representation 
of Sikhism was ever found in a textbook or uttered out of a teachers mouth in my years of K-12. 
It is excluding for a Sikh to look to my left and right and see so much diverse representation of 
ethnicities and religions around me in my classrooms, yet I would be the odd one out and feel 
like such a minority. I would feel extremely misrepresented and unrecognized.  

Growing up, Sikhism was never mentioned in class. I remember specifically learning about the 
Holocaust in 7th grade and thinking to myself, Sikhs had undergone a tragedy similar to this in 
1984. Why is my teacher not talking about it? Should I raise my hand and teach her and my 
class? I am only 12 at this time... However I found myself trying to educate some of my close 
peers on this matter but being so young myself, I couldn't teach this history. Ultimately, due to 
the California education system failing to have Sikh students in California feel equal, I took it 
upon myself to study through the American Councils program of studying in Punjab to learn 
how to teach back home. I now teach Sikhism at my local Sikh Temple weekly to ensure that the 
youth of Sikh Americans have some outlet to learn about their religion and feel a sense of 
belonging and importance as their fellow classmates feel daily in K-12 public schools. Our 
education system can not leave certain groups out of their curriculum. Students should not 
have to wait until college to find one ethnic studies professor who finally mentions Sikhism for 
the first time. I feel as though the California curriculum has failed me personally in feeling 
included and represented, I urge a change so the future generations will not go to the extremes 
I have had to, so that there is education being passed to the future generations.  

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Being a Sikh in California and not having it be mentioned by those in higher education is 
extremely discouraging and places this  inner hierarchy of inequality, as California is an 
intensely diverse state that encourages the representation of "minorities". 

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 

the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Isherpreet Kaur 

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
