From: Harvir Kaur  
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 12:26 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Deep Singh 
Subject: Sikh Inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Harvir Kaur and I have bee a resident of California since the day I was born 
in 2002. I live in Bakersfield California and am a high school senior at Ridgeview High 
School, which is part of one of the largest school districts in California: the Kern High 
School District.  

Growing up, I was always different. I was a minority child along with multiple other 
groups such as the LatinX and African American community; however, the difference 
between me and other minority students was that no one knew who I was or, rather, 
what I was. I am a Californian since birth, but more importantly, I am also a Sikh since. 
In elementary school, I learned about race. In middle school, I learned about religion. I 
was disappointed at the fact that I never encountered the word “Sikh" until 8th grade, 
and when I did, I was shocked at the incorrect textbook definition. Furthermore, when I 
brought the incorrect definition to my teacher’s attention, it was brushed away without a 
second glance.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part 
of California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a 
meaningful way in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition 
found that turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to 
reiterate that the inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model 
curriculum in a meaningful way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in 
reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

1.  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into 

the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

2.  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that 
focus on the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
California, to balance the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash 
against Sikhs in the context of post-9/11 Islamophobia.  

The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Sincerely,  

Harvir Kaur 

 
 
 
 
 
 
