From: Winty Singh  
Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2020 10:47 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: Sikh inclusion in CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee,  

I am writing today to request the meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the California Ethnic 
Studies Model Curriculum for entry into the public record.  

My name is Winty Singh and I have been a resident of California since 2003.  I live in Elk Grove, 
CA and work in healthcare administration.  

Please insert a few sentences speaking about your personal experiences regarding education 
about Sikhism in K-12 public school classrooms. Have you encountered a lack of teaching about 
Sikhism, inaccurate teaching about Sikhism, or incidents of bias / bullying due to your identity 
at school? 

As a resident of Elk Grove, I was surprised to find the lack of education around Sikhs and 
California Sikh history in our schools. After the murders of two Sikh grandfathers in 2011 in my 
city, I began doing presentations for school teachers, administrators and students about 
California Sikh history. Quite often, most of what I was presenting was new content that 
students were not learning about in their normal curriculum. I found this surprising given that 
California is home to the largest population of Sikhs in the country, and that Sikhs in this state 
have a rich history and contribution in California. I wonder why community volunteers are 
required to educate our students about their state.  

I am extremely disappointed that the Sikh community, which has been an integral part of 
California’s history and economy since the early 1900s, is not represented in a meaningful way 
in the initial Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft.  

There are approximately 250,0000 Sikhs in California. A report by the Sikh Coalition found that 
turbaned Sikhs are bullied at a rate double the national average. I wish to reiterate that the 
inclusion of Sikhism, the world's fifth largest religion, in the model curriculum in a meaningful 
way, is an essential step in overcoming ignorance and in reducing bullying and harassment.   

Specifically, I request:  

•  A detailed lesson plan about the Sikh American community to be inserted into the 

Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

•  More specific examples throughout the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that focus on 
the myriad of positive Sikh contributions made over 125 years in California, to balance 
the current language’s focus on the hateful backlash against Sikhs in the context of post-
9/11 Islamophobia. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement will be in communication with you soon, 
specifying the details of these requests. I ask that the recommendations made in their 
forthcoming letter be incorporated into the final Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum on my 
behalf.  

Yours sincerely, 

Winty Singh 

 
 
 
