From: Pia Gentapanan  
Sent: Saturday, March 14, 2020 10:25 AM 
To: Superintendent  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Curriculum: My High School Project! 

Dear Superintendent Tony Thurmond, 

My name is Pia Gentapanan and I am a senior at Environmental Charter High School, located in 
Lawndale. I am currently working on a senior research project. At the start of my academic 
school year, I wrote an extensive research essay on the harm of the Model Minority Myth in 
communities of color. The next part of my project is to pinpoint a potential solution that could 
mitigate my chosen social injustice, and I chose to focus on enforcing the Ethnic Studies 
Curriculum AB 331. 

I am reaching out to you because I would like your support in the implementation of ethnic 
studies classes in high schools not just in the Los Angeles area, but throughout California. I 
believe the implementation of this course will educate students at a young age about cultural 
respect and inclusivity of ethnic backgrounds beyond only European. From learning about an 
array of ethnicities, my hope is that the perpetuation of stereotypes, like the Model Minority 
Myth, can be prevented or mitigated with the integration of ethnic studies. Attached to this 
email is a petition signed by teachers and students who support this course. 

Exploring topics like these will help develop a new generation of people where they are more 
respectful and aware of their social interactions within our environment. That will help bring 
more people who are understanding of the world into the political circle. I ask for your support 
in areas that I, as a student, cannot reach, like the Board of Education. I also offer my help and 
support in any area of interest necessary to help further the enforcement of the AB 331. I 
understand that you must be busy, but I would appreciate it if you could provide a response 
and/or support in any way possible. Thank you for your time! 

Best, 
Pia Gentapanan 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
