From: Wesley hingano   
Sent: Monday, May 25, 2020 2:07 PM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc:  Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] OUSD Pacific Islander Voice 

Hello Family,  

My name is Wesley Hingano and I am a case manager in OUSD. More importantly I am 
one (if not the only) Pacific Islander employee in the district. I serve our students in the 
school district at Oakland High School, but my biggest job is that I stand as a bridge to 
the Pacific Islander community and OUSD (supporting the Tongan community through 
my work at Laurel United Methodist Church). I wanted to take this time to write you all to 
let you know I stand in solidarity with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum as created by 
scholars of color from across the state. 

We need more resources, curricula and support to better reflect our incredibly diverse 
student population in Oakland. Our Arab American, Pacific Islander and Central 
American student populations are significant and growing in OUSD, and they deserve to 
see themselves reflected in our classroom content. Our staff and other students should 
also learn about our history.  Our history textbooks are insufficient and continue to be 
far too Eurocentric, and sometimes offensive or minimizing to communities of color.  

As a doctoral student as SFSU I have engaged in my own personal research with 
former OUSD Pacific Islander students with an effort to uplift their voices and 
experiences. A reoccurring theme that rises from coding is the need for more 
representation of our Oceania people in curricula. As one former OUSD student said, 
“it’s like we’re invisible - we are not represented in staff, in textbooks, and feel like we 
just sometimes don’t belong.” We have the opportunity to bring visibility and education 
of our Oceania people into the classroom and by doing so we will have an opportunity to 
increase Pacific Islander students’ sense of belonging.  

Please stand up to 50 years of attacks on Ethnic Studies, and stand with students and 
teachers by voting YES on the ESMC resolution on May 27th! 

Malo, 

Wesley Hingano 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
