From: Heath Madom   
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 3:19 PM 
To: James Harris; Shanthi Gonzales; Roseann Torres; Gary Yee; Jumoke HintonHodge; Aimee Eng; 
[emails redacted] 
Cc: Kyla Johnson-Trammell; Curtiss Sarikey; Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft 

Dear OUSD Board Members, 

I hope this message finds all of you safe and healthy during these unprecedented times.  

My name is Heath Madom and I am a teacher at Oakland Technical High School. I stand in 
solidarity with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft as created by scholars of color from 
across the state, and I urge you to support the resolution that will come before you tomorrow 
evening. 

We need more resources, curricula and support to better reflect our incredibly diverse student 
population in Oakland.  Our Arab American, Pacific Islander and Central American student 
populations are significant and growing in OUSD, and they deserve to see themselves reflected 
in our classroom content.  Our staff and other students should also learn about this history.  Our 
history textbooks are insufficient and continue to be far too Eurocentric, and sometimes 
offensive or minimizing to communities of color.  

From the standpoint of my own curriculum, I spend an entire unit examining the US immigration 
system with my Sophomores, and much of the unit is focused on the experience of migrants 
from the Northern Triangle nations of Central America. I also teach a short story by Peter 
Nathaniel Malae, a writer of Pacific Islander heritage. These are invaluable parts of my 
curriculum and allow students from these backgrounds to see themselves reflected in the 
curriculum.  

In closing, I urge you to please stand up to 50 years of attacks on Ethnic Studies, and stand with 
students and teachers by voting YES on the ESMC resolution on May 27th! 

Thank You, 

Heath Madom 

--  
Heath Madom 
Pronouns: he/him/his 
English / Law & Society 
Oakland Technical High School  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
