From: Carina V Lieu  
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 10:40 AM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc:  Ethnic Studies; Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Letters of Support to Save Ethnic Studies @ OUSD! 

Dear Directors Eng and Yee,  

My family and I lived in District 4 for 20, and I now live in District 2. I write to thanks Director Eng 
for carrying this resolution and ask Director Yee for your support of the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum Draft written by teachers and scholars from across California. Your support would 
mean the world to me.  

As a OUSD alumni (go Titans!) and Ethnic Studies major at UC Berkeley, I have never seen an 
adequate representation of the narratives of people of color in our textbooks, despite the 
enormous diversity of the community we live in.  In fact, I joined a committee in high school to 
make history textbook selections but I did not learn any of my own history as a Southeast Asian 
American until I attended Cal. Once I did, I felt more empowered to use my voice to speak up 
for my community. Please support the proposed School Board resolution to prevent the 
censorship and removal of Arab American, Pacific Islander and Central American Studies from 
the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

I first learned about Middle Eastern history by taking a Democratic Education (DeCal) at UC 
Berkeley in 2003. In that course, another student taught me about the reason for the conflict in 
Afghanistan and that led to me have a deeper appreciation and understanding of the Middle 
East. Preserving Arab American Studies is important to me because I am certain it would 
promote dialogue for a community that is highly marginalized in the larger media landscape, 
increase solidarity, and create a more just society.  

The current attacks on Ethnic Studies and Arab American Studies are completely unjust and 
racist, and Oakland should not stand for them. 

This resolution is moving a step for social justice. From the bottom of my heart:  
Please vote YES on May 27th to support this! 

We are counting on you! 

Carina V. Lieu, MUP 
Yoga | Education | Policy | Community Organizing 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
