From: Malaya Tuyay  
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 11:32 PM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies; Superintendent 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Oakland Save Ethnic Studies 

Dear Oakland Board Members, 

I urge you to put “Students First” by supporting the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum led by 
scholars of color from across California.  Oakland is exactly the kind of city that should stand up 
for our underrepresented communities. 

Ethnic Studies has always been about empowering students of color who are marginalized and 
minimized by our curriculum.  We need to bring this conversation back to the focus of Students 
First, one of our Core OUSD Values.  Our white students greatly benefit from having these 
critical conversations about race, so that all Oaklanders can build skills to navigate our society 
and build stronger communities and neighborhoods. 

Ethnic/Pacific Islander/Arab American/Central American Studies is important to me because I 
didn't have access to this kind of learning growing up. I was never given the opportunity to learn 
the strength in my own hxstory and that led to a lot of internalized racism. I was never 
introduced to the power of my own roots because I was only taught stories of white 
communities. When I finally accessed ethnic studies in college (which many people do not have 
the privilege of accessing) I was able to learn so much about myself, my community, and how 
we can all better work together. Learning our own hxstories at a young age is so important to 
the development of young peoples' self worth. Learning the hxstories of different experiences 
around us helps young people build an empathetic and compassionate understanding of their 
peers and community.  

We need Ethnic Studies and we must have these conversations to address racial tensions in 
our community, so that we can move toward healing, understanding, and solidarity across all of 
our cultures. 

Please vote YES, thank you! 

Malaya Tuyay, ally living in Melrose neighborhood / district 5 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
