From: Pamela Burnett  
Sent: Wednesday, May 27, 2020 2:02 AM 
To: [emails redacted] 
Cc: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Dear Oakland Board Members, 

As an alumna of the Oakland Public Schools, grandparent of a current OUSD student, and as a 
retired University of California educator, I urge you to support the Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum led by scholars of color from across California. 

The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is important because it provides educational and social 
benefits, as shown by research measuring greater student attendance, higher gpas, and greater 
persistence toward graduation. Students who are able to see themselves in context acquire 
self-esteem, motivation to learn, appreciation of cultural and socioeconomic diversity, and 
strength of agency on behalf of themselves and others.  These qualities are clearly what we 
need in an adequately educated civil society and healthy democracy. 

OUSD's ethnic studies curriculum should be inclusive, bolstering critical OUSD Core values by 
encompassing, rather than conspicuously overlooking the histories, heritages, and backgrounds 
of students of Pacific Islander American, Arab American, and Central American descent.  How 
can an OUSD education be respectful, equitable, and culturally responsible to the students of 
these and other backgrounds if these ethnic studies areas are ignored?  How can OUSD avoid 
assumptions and biases about Pacific Islander Americans, Arab Americans, and Central 
Americans if knowledge about them is omitted from the curriculum?  

To cite a personal example, my granddaughters' other grandmother came to the Bay Area in 
the early 1980's as a non-English speaking, single mother refugee from El Salvador.  I am still 
bothered by the extent to which my own K-16 education had been profoundly lacking until 
meeting my new relatives compelled some research.  Not only did I gain appreciation for the 
life-and-death struggles endured by generations of my new family members, I also discovered 
that knowing more about Central America and its peoples is important to understanding 
immigration, citizenship, the US, and the role of the US in the world.  

Please vote "Yes" on the proposed resolution by directors Torres, Eng, and Hinton to show 
OUSD's support for Ethnic Studies and our diverse students. 
Thank you for providing a curriculum that is inclusive and complete, so our students can be 
successful in our diverse society and make better-informed decisions that impact the future. 

Sincerely, 

Pamela Burnett 
Oakland High School Class of 1966 

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Grandparent of current Oakland Technical High School student 
University of California Student Affairs Administrator (Retired) 
Remember Them: Champions for Humanity Monument (Past OUSD interdisciplinary curriculum 
resources partner), pro bono docent 

 
