From: KS Peters  
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 10:07 PM 
To: [email redacted] 
Cc: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Please Support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum! 

Dear Director Yee, 

I am a parent of a preschool student who will be be attending an OUSD elementary school in 
coming years. I am also a high school teacher who formerly taught Ethnic Studies in OUSD. I 
urge you to put “Students First” by supporting the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum led by 
scholars of color from across California. Oakland is exactly the kind of city that should stand up 
for our underrepresented communities. 

Ethnic Studies has always been about empowering students of color who are marginalized and 
minimized by our curriculum. We need to bring this conversation back to the focus of Students 
First, one of our Core OUSD Values. Our students greatly benefit from having these critical, 
honest conversations about race, so that all Oaklanders can build skills to navigate our society 
and build stronger communities and neighborhoods. 

Ethnic Studies, and more specifically Arab American Studies, is important to me because as a 
White person raising a child that will be attending OUSD, it is extremely important to me that 
she gets an education that teaches clearly and succinctly about race and racism in this country. 
I don't want her to learn a whitewashed version of history. More specifically, as a mother to a 
child who is half-Jewish, it is extremely important to me that my kid learns about Arab culture 
that is not riddled with subtle islamophobia, as curriculum can often unintentionally be. 

This controversy is a perfect example of why we need Ethnic Studies taught in its entirety and 
why we must have these conversations to address racial tensions in our community, so that we 
can move toward healing, understanding, and solidarity across all of our cultures. 

Please vote YES on the resolution to support Ethnic Studies that includes ALL parts of this field. 
Thank you! 

Kaedan Peters 
Parent, District 4 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
