From: Shara Watkins  
Sent: Tuesday, June 16, 2020 4:42 PM 
To: Lavender Whitaker 
Cc: Ethnic Studies; Sanchez, Mark; Pat Murray; Parvin Ahmadi 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Ethnic Studies Resolution 

Thank you so much for your outreach and additional context! I look forward to discussing with 
our Board on Thursday and considering the ways that our District can best support all of our 
students. As a former educator, I can personally attest to the importance of a diverse 
curriculum - one that is reflective of the students and families in our schools and classrooms. I 
look forward to pushing forward on this issue and to continuing to work on these issues. I 
appreciate this step in collaboration across our community. Let's stay in touch! 

Best,  
Shara 

On Tue, Jun 16, 2020 at 8:01 AM Lavender Whitaker wrote: 
Dear Fellow School Board Members, 

We are Lavender Whitaker, Mark Sanchez, and Patricia Murray, respectively, the School Board 
Presidents of the Boards of Education in Castro Valley Unified, San Francisco Unified, and 
South San Francisco Unified.  In April and May our trustees unanimously adopted a resolution 
affirming support of AB2016 California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft. We are 
reaching out to request that you do the same.  In the name of diversity, many of our students of 
color, similar to yours, are part of these marginalized groups, and it is time for there to be a 
curriculum that addresses this equity issue, while also benefiting white students. In this way all 
students can learn about and gain a better understanding of each other. 

Since the late 1960s, when Ethnic Studies was first created and became an interdisciplinary 
program on UC campuses as well as at the California State University level, it has served not 
only as an academic field but also as a powerful force for student performance and graduation 
rates.  We recognize and applaud the current efforts with the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
(ESMC), which ensures a curriculum that provides fair representation for students of color and 
those facing increasing discrimination in the current global climate, and which has been 
developed by leading Ethnic Studies educators in our state and world. 

AB2016 California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft is an important step in the right 
direction and is in alignment with the core values of celebrating diversity, commitment to 
inclusion, and ensuring equity.  We believe that the ESMC is also in alignment with the mission 
of the San Mateo-Foster City School District.  

We all know that the challenges for our students today are ever increasing.  As policy makers, 
we need to take the lead and address their needs and provide opportunities and access in a variety 
of ways.  We believe that communities of color have been working towards this Ethnic Studies 
Model Curriculum draft for 50+ years and that it is important to support the work of the leading 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ethnic Studies educators in the state today. This is an important step forward for all our students, 
which is why we support the ESMC draft and hope you will vote to support it as well. 

Sincerely, 

Lavender Whitaker, Board President 
Castro Valley Unified School District     

Mark Sanchez, Board President 
San Francisco Unified School District   

Patricia Murray, Board President 
South San Francisco Unified School District 

 
 
 
 
 
