From: Sameena Usman  
Sent: Wednesday, June 17, 2020 7:26 PM 
To: [email redacted] 
Cc: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Support the model Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

Dear Members of the Jefferson Elementary School District, 

My name is Sameena Usman and I am the Government Relations Coordinator for the Bay Area office of 
the Council on American-Islamic Relations.  

I am writing to urge the Board to support the ethnic studies model curriculum and inclusion of Arab 
American studies.  Hatred stems from fear, and fear stems from lack of education.  There is a lot of 
misinformation or lack of understanding about Arab Americans which has likely resulted in the increase 
in hate incidences and bullying in schools, which is why it is critical to have an Arab American Studies 
program that is included in the CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

CAIR is the nation’s largest Muslim civil liberties group whose mission is to enhance the understanding 
of Islam, promote civil rights, promote justice and empower American Muslims.  We receive numerous 
reports from students who have been harassed and bullied because they are Muslim or perceived to be 
Muslim.  Every other year we survey Muslims from across California to ask about their experiences in 
middle and high school.  In our last report, of the 1,500 students we surveyed, we found that 40% of the 
respondents were bullied for being Muslim, which is double the national statistic.  We found that 29% 
reported offensive comments from teachers, administrators, and other officials.  This is very concerning 
given that teachers set the environment for the classroom. 

While not all Muslims are Arab, and not all Arabs are Muslims, we truly believe that an Arab American 
Studies program that is incorporated in Asian American Studies in the model Ethnic Studies curriculum 
would be essential to protecting our students from harassment and bullying.  

Please support the CA Model Curriculum for Jefferson Elementary School District.  Feel free to contact 
me if you have and questions. 

Take care, 
Sameena 

Sameena Usman 
Government Relations Coordinator  

Council on American-Islamic Relations 
San Francisco Bay Area Office 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
