From: Masha Merkulova  
Sent: Wednesday, June 3, 2020 2:00 PM 
To: Tony Thurmond  
Cc: sbe@cde.ca.goc; IQC <IQC@cde.ca.gov> 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] High schoolers present Jewish Student Bill of Rights. 

The Honorable Tony Thurmond, 

            We are writing to you to express the critical need for the California Department of 
Education (CDE) to take immediate action to protect California Jewish students who are 
targeted and discriminated against because of their religious beliefs and identity. 

            Antisemitism is growing in California public schools, particularly in middle schools and 
high schools. Manifestations of antisemitism span not only classic tropes of Jew-hatred but also 
include expressions of hate and delegitimization of the Jewish State.  

A recent survey conducted by Club Z, a national Zionist youth movement, indicates that 

schools are failing to provide Jewish teenagers with a safe learning environment. Jewish 
students are openly ridiculed and harassed by their classmates and in some cases even by their 
teachers. In one top California school, a teacher made the appalling claim that “Jews didn’t 
really do anything productive over the course of their existence. They mostly just wandered the 
desert killing their own babies.” This hate is also found in school textbooks and curricula. The 
Palo Alto Unified School District recommended third through fifth graders read a book glorifying 
Hitler. Additional examples range from CA teachers assigning Hitler-inspired projects to Nazi 
salutes and graffiti to normalized antisemitic rhetoric among students.  

Making matters even more alarming is the CDE’s 2019 Draft Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum that excludes Jews as an ethnic minority, demonizes Jewish self-determination, and 
supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, while promoting 
misinformation and Jewish stereotypes. We appreciate that you stood with members of the 
California Legislative Jewish Caucus in calling for significant revisions to the Curriculum. Yet, 
the outcome of the Curriculum remains in flux and the January 2020 recommendation that the 
Curriculum focus on “four foundational groups” signals that the concerns raised by the Jewish 
community, their allies, and other minority groups will be disregarded.  

            We are therefore calling on the CDE to adopt the attached Jewish Students’ Bill of 
Rights to safeguard the rights of Jewish students in California. The universal rights outlined in 
the document are the most basic things that every student deserves: (1) The Right to Free 
Expression (2) The Right to a Fair Education (3) The Right to a Safe Learning Environment (4) 
The Right to a Comprehensive Definition of Antisemitism, and (5) The Right to Fair Protections.  

            Superintendent, thank you for your work in safeguarding the rights of Jewish students. 
We believe the enclosed Jewish Students’ Bill of Rights will afford further necessary protections 
from harassment, bullying, and antisemitism for Jewish students in California public middle 
schools and high schools. We appreciate your consideration of this document and we look 
forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience. 

  
  
Sincerely,  

Masha Merkulova 
Founder and Executive Director, Club Z 

 
 
