JEWISH STUDENTS 
BILL OF RIGHTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

  3   Foreword

  4   The Problem

  5   The Cause

  6   Jewish Students Bill of Rights

  8   Club Z Survey

2 | 

FO REWORD

For too long, Jewish students have been targeted, discriminated against, and in 
some cases, physically assaulted because of who they are and what they believe. 
Schools have a duty to protect students of all backgrounds, to provide a safe 
learning environment and to teach fair and factual curricula. 

I grew up in a country where deep-seated antisemitism was the norm. In the Soviet 
Union, Jews were treated as second-class citizens. The government forced people to 
stop any religious practice and spread propaganda that used Jews as scapegoats. 
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion — a text still used today to justify hatred of 
Jews — was circulated by the czarist secret police. And now, this same hatred is 
threatening America. 

Since 2004, the Department of Education has affirmed that Jewish Americans must 
be protected from harassment at schools that accept federal funding, under Title VI 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In the last 15 years, the White House has expanded 
on these protections. Jewish American students at these schools — from preschool 
through graduate school — are legally entitled to learn in an environment free of 
hate and discrimination. This hate includes new and rising forms of antisemitism, 
which often masquerade as anti-Zionism. 

Club Z’s teenage students are making their voices heard — even though one 
in three cannot openly identify as a Zionist at school. They are calling on the 
relevant government bodies to enforce these anti-discrimination laws by adopting 
the Jewish Students Bill of Rights. 

It is far past time to take a strong, decisive stand against antisemitism in America. 

Masha Merkulova 

Masha is the Executive Director of Club Z, a national Zionist youth movement.

| 3

 
THE PROBL EM

WHY JEWISH STUDENTS NEED A BILL OF RIGHTS 

Antisemitism is growing on campuses across the country, from kindergarten through 
graduate school. A Club Z survey of Jewish teenagers found that half of the students 
do not wear items that easily identify them as Jews in public. For American Jewish 
teens, Israel and Zionism is inextricably linked to their Jewish identity. Manifestations 
of antisemitism span not only classic tropes of Jew-hatred (e.g. “Jews control the 
world”), but also include expressions of demonization and delegitimization of the 
Jewish State (e.g. “Zionism is racism” and “IDF soldiers are baby killers”).  

What is most alarming is where these teens are 
most likely to encounter antisemitism today: on 
social media and in their schools.

Jewish students are openly ridiculed by 
their classmates and teachers. From Jewish 
students’ lockers defaced with swastikas, to 
Jewish teens told that they “don’t need names, 
numbers would be enough,” to being called 
a “fascist pig” for wearing a Jewish star, the 
examples are countless.  

At least one-third of Club Z teens 
have encountered the following 
antisemitic lie at least once:

•  Jews control the world  

•  Jews exploit the Holocaust  

•  Holocaust denial 

•  Jews control the media  

•  Zionism is racism  

•  IDF soldiers are baby killers  

Bigotry is also coming from teachers; in a top California school, a teacher made the 
appalling claim that “Jews didn’t really do anything productive over the course of 
their existence. They mostly just wandered the desert killing their own babies.” At 
another school, a teacher decorated a history classroom with incendiary posters, 
which indicated that Jews have no right to live in their homeland.

Hate is also found in curricula. California’s 2019 Draft Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum excludes Jews as an ethnic minority and promotes Jewish stereotypes. 
One of the few mentions of Jews references Jewish wealth in relation to success and 
property rights.

88% 
of Jewish American teens see 
people trivialize the Holocaust 

4 | 

64% 
of Jewish American teens 
encounter someone claim that 
“Jews control the banks” 

49% 
of the teens said that they 
do not wear items that easily 
identify them as Jews in public.

THE C AUSE

WHAT IS BEHIND THIS ANTISEMITISM? 

1. Textbooks are replete with inaccuracies against the State of Israel and the  
  Jewish people. Pearson Publishing Company, the world’s largest education    
  company — whose major stakeholders include Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Libya, and  
  Turkey — disseminates content that contains anti-Israel and antisemitic content.     
  Pearson offers a number of Common Core Programs for high schools in the U.S.,    

including curriculums that demonize the Jewish State; present anti-Zionist    
  revisionist material; and whitewashes or ignores terrorist attacks against Israelis.

2. Foreign funding of K-12 public schools goes unchecked. The Qatar Foundation,    
funded by the Qatari government, gave more than $30 million over an eight year    

  period to dozens of schools from New York to Oregon, The Wall Street Journal  
  reported in 2017. The funding came from Qatar Foundation International (QFI), the  
foundation’s U.S. arm, to support the growth of Arabic programs, including paying  
for materials, salaries, and teacher training. QFI’s curriculum contains antisemitic    

  and anti-American material.

3. New curricula proposals threaten to institutionalize antisemitism. In 2019,   
  California’s Department of Education presented a Draft Ethnic Studies Model  
  Curriculum that demonized Jewish self-determination and supported   
  the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, while promoting    
  misinformation and antisemitic Jewish stereotypes. It drew outrage and concern  
from more than 80 Jewish and civil rights organizations. This community-wide  
  effort led the California State Board of Education to announce that the curriculum   
  will be “substantially redesigned.” Yet, in January 2020, California’s Department  
  of Education recommended that the ethnic studies curriculum focus on “four  

foundational groups,” signaling that the concerns raised by the Jewish community,  

  their allies and other minority groups will be disregarded. A final draft of the  
  curriculum will go to the State Board of Education for adoption in March 2021.

To combat this bigotry and antisemitism in our public schools, Club Z Teens calls 
on the U.S. Department of Education, California Department of Education, and U.S. 
public schools to adopt the Jewish Students Bill of Rights.

| 5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jewish Students Bill of Rights

Preamble
We, the Jewish students of America, in order to guarantee an education without fear of 
harassment, intimidation, or violence on the basis of our identity, affirm that Zionism is an 
integral part of our Jewish identity, and declare that we are entitled to the following rights at all 
levels of the United States education system.

Article I: The Right to Free Expression
Jewish students have the right to freely express Zionism — which is an integral part of Jewish identity — 
without fear of discrimination or retribution from any teachers or administrators. 

•  Teachers will not silence students or deliberately lower their grade in a classroom for expressing  
  Zionist viewpoints. 

•  If Israel is discussed in a classroom, Jewish students are allowed to speak their views freely, with  
  respect and support from teachers. Jewish students can explain why and how anti-Zionism is  

inherently antisemitic, as the philosophy of anti-Zionism delegitimizes Jewish history and Jewish  
identity. 

•  Jewish students will not face interrogation about Israel during discussions where Israel is not relevant. 

•  Schools and faculty must allow students to participate in clubs, events, and organizations that  
	 affirm	Zionism	as	integral	to	Jewish	identity.	Schools	will	provide	resources	for	student-led	Jewish		 	
  Zionist events or clubs, such as access to classroom space or funding, as provided to other student    
  groups. 

Article II: The Right to a Fair Education
Jewish students have the right to an unbiased education about the Jewish State and the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
Discussion including differing viewpoints is key to learning critical thinking skills, but curricula regarding 
Israel must be grounded in verified facts.

•  Teachers will encourage students on all sides of an issue to express disagreement over ideas or  
  beliefs in a respectful manner.

•  Schools must ensure that educational curricula are not used to demonize and delegitimize the  
  Jewish State.

•	 Educators	must	present	historically	accurate	information	about	the	Arab-Israeli	conflict,	and		

include diverse perspectives, including Zionist sources. 

6

 
 
 
 
 
 
	
 
Jewish Students Bill of Rights

Article III: The Right to a Safe Learning Environment 
Jewish students have the right to attend schools where respect and dignity for all students, including Jewish 
students, is a standard set by state, district, and school administrators, and enforced at all levels, from the 
State Superintendent to classroom teachers. 

•	 Schools	must	ensure	that	Jewish	students	receive	the	same	protections	from	discrimination	afforded	to		
  other minority groups, in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

•  Schools and faculty need to communicate a clear message to students that harassment and  bullying  
  will not be tolerated, and that school is a safe place for all students, including Jewish students.

•  Schools must ensure the safety and security of students on campus and during school activities. When  
  Jewish students are subjected to verbal and/or physical harassment, educators need to take immediate  
  action against the perpetrators to prevent similar harassment from happening again. 

•	 Schools	must	encourage	students,	staff	and	parents	to	report	all	incidents	of	harassment	and	bullying		
  so that schools can address them before the situation escalates. 

Article IV: The Right to a Comprehensive Definition of Antisemitism 
Jewish students have the right to protections from all forms of discrimination, with a definition of 
antisemitism that includes anti-Zionism, today’s most potent form of antisemitism. 

•  Schools receiving federal and state funds must formally adopt the International Holocaust   
	 Remembrance	Alliance	(IHRA)	definition	of	antisemitism,	which	includes	examples	of	antisemitism		
  pertaining to the Jewish State.

•  Schools and faculty need to acknowledge that rising forms of antisemitism often masquerade as  
  anti-Zionism. To properly determine when anti-Zionism has crossed the line into antisemitism,  
	 schools	must	refer	to	the	IHRA	definition.

•  The Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement explicitly calls for the destruction of the  
	 Jewish	State	and	is	inherently	antisemitic.	Authority	figures	including	teachers	and	administrators			
  need to acknowledge BDS’s bigotry, and refrain from promoting this hateful movement in the  
  classroom. 

Article V: The Right to Fair Protections 
Jewish students have the right to an environment where those who promote misinformation about Jews and 
the Jewish State are held accountable for spreading antisemitism.

•  Antisemitism, under any circumstance, cannot be tolerated. This includes antisemitism in the  
  classroom, syllabi, curriculums, textbooks, school functions, events and any other function directly  

tied	to	schools,	as	defined	by	the	IHRA	definition.	

•  Schools need to have a system in place to intervene if a student or teacher promotes antisemitism. Any  
  person responsible for disseminating antisemitic viewpoints needs to be held accountable.

•  Schools need to create robust partnerships with local Jewish communities and organizations to ensure  

that they are properly addressing antisemitism and protecting Jewish students.

7

 
 
 
 
	
 
CLU B Z SURVEY

Club Z conducted a survey in January 2020 of American Jewish teenagers from across 
the country on antisemitism, anti-Zionism and education. These are the findings: 

1. 

16% of students don’t 
feel safe as a Jew

2.  Do you wear items that easily identify you as  

a Jew in public? 
Yes  51%
No 49%

3.  Do you view the following statement, “Israel has  

no right to exist,” as antisemitic?
Yes  98%
No   2%

4.  Have you ever refrained from openly stating that  

you are a Zionist at your school?
Yes  29%
No   71%

5.  Do you believe that Israel is the homeland of the  

Jewish people? 
Yes  100%

7. 

8. 

In the past year, have you ever felt unsafe at a  
Jewish event/ place where there were a majority  
of Jews present?
Yes  29%
No   71%

In the past year, have you refrained from going to  
Jewish places for fear of an antisemitic attack?
Yes  12%
No   86%

9.  Have any of your classmates and/or teachers  

directly singled you out because you were Jewish?
Yes  19%
No   81%

10.  Have your teachers brought up Israel in the  

classroom?
Yes  62%
No   21%

11. 

If “yes,” was there an overt anti-Israel bias? 
Yes  37%
No   62%

6.  What type(s) of antisemitic comments and/or 

accusations have you encountered?

12. Where have you encountered antisemitism?

Jews control the world

Jews exploit the Holocaust

Israel is a Nazi state

Jews are disloyal

Jews control the banks

Jews control the media

Zionism is racism

IDF soldiers are baby killers

Jews drink blood

17%

Holocaust denial

Holocaust jokes

41%

37%

24%

27%

School

58%

Social media

News articles

77%

51% 

64%

Television

38%

42%

34%

39%

41%

Songs (lyrics)

8%

After-school activities
(e.g. soccer practice)

13%

Camp

7%

88%

Abroad

22%

The survey reflects the attitudes of 83 teens who attended the Club Z National Conference on the topic of antisemitism in America.  

8 | 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
