 OFFICE OF THE VICE MAYOR 
 CITY OF DALY CITY 
 333 – 90TH STREET 
 DALY CITY, CA  94015-1895 

To the Jefferson Union High School Board of Trustees: 

I write to ask for your support of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft written by teachers and 
scholars from across California.

We have never seen adequate representation of the narratives of people of color in our textbooks, 
despite the enormous diversity of the community we live in.  Please support the proposed School Board 
resolution to prevent the censorship and removal of Arab American, Pacific Islander and Central 
American Studies from the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. 

Growing up in Daly City, I did not learn about the history of my community not until I reached college. I 
remember in elementary school searching in the library to find only one book about the Philippines that  
I could identify with. This was unfortunate. Young people want to know who they are. Without Ethnic 
Studies, you are depriving them their own his/her-stories in their classrooms. If I learned about the 
history of my community with my classmates in the diverse City of Daly City and San Mateo County, I 
truly believe this would have been a huge impact to my peers in our development. I proudly graduated 
from Jefferson High School but also saw some of my peers lack enough credits to graduate. I was 
saddened by this. I know that Ethnic Studies Curriculum could have curbed those statistics. I've seen 
firsthand the impact of Ethnic studies on lives. It changed mine. 

After Jefferson High, I graduated with  Asian American Studies in the College of Ethnic Studies at San 
Francisco State University, which has informed my analysis and direction towards serving my 
community as a public servant. In addition, I received my Masters in Public Administration with an 
emphasis in Public Management to humbly serve the community I was raised in. With both these 
disciplines, I know it is imperative you add the CA Ethnic Studies Model curriculum to Jefferson Unified 
High School District. 

You all have the opportunity to change the discourse of what the educational system has been lacking. 
Stories of our communities of color who have contributed to the local and national fabric of the United 
States can be included in the dialogue and be centered in the discourse. This is 2020 and our narrative 
must include the diversity of what this county reflects in the educational system.  

Therefore, the current attacks on Ethnic Studies and Arab American Studies are completely unjust, and 
we should not stand for them. This resolution is moving a step for social justice.  Please vote YES this 
evening on June 2nd to support this! 

Warm regards, 

Juslyn Manalo 

Vice Mayor | City of Daly City 

