June 5, 2020 

It  has  been  an  emotional  week.  As  an  educator  I  know  the  role  that  education  plays  in 
changing minds and hearts.  Moreover,   it is not a coincidence that the key origin for dismantling 
racial injustices would begin in the classroom with Brown vs. Board of Education.  I wonder what 
happened  in  the  classrooms  of  those  white  officers  who  have  killed  so  many  of  my  African-
American counterparts. I wonder what they learned in their classrooms as children.   

One of the saddest  days of my  life was the morning  I awakened to  the  news that  eight 
African-American parishioners were killed in a church by a nineteen year old.     Did anyone ever 
think about his childhood?  I don’t mean those flag burning years.  I mean those early years when 
he wore school pants and carried a lunch to school with the backpack that his mom helped him 
slip on.  What did he learn? Did he play baseball or soccer?  Did he watch Nickelodeon or Disney? 
More importantly, what did he learn?  What we do know is that this young boy went to school 
each day under a confederate flag. All activity in this country should have stopped and paused on 
January 11, 2017, when Dylann Roof was sentenced to death- the youngest person ever to receive 
such a sentence for a hate crime.  So now, what about those guys in blue, our dedicated officers 
whose commitment to “protect” and “serve” have been called into question by lives that simply 
appear  not  to  matter.        Did  you  ever  imagine  their  childhood?  Did  they  draw,  swim,  or  play 
football.  What did they learn? Did they dream of becoming police at an early age?  Did they watch 
Law & Order, CSI, or Adam 12?  More importantly, America has to ask- What didn’t they learn?   

With  all  due  respect  I  am  so  tired  of  hearing  folks  say,  “I  truly  believe  the  majority  or 
ninety-nine percent of law enforcement officers are service oriented, with good hearts.”  Perhaps 
it’s not  merely  a question of the heart. Police officers are Americans in  uniforms! Why do we 
expect Americans in uniforms to be distinctly different from other Americans? Most have attended 
the same schools systems, were raised in the similar cultural spaces, have seen the same television 
shows- that often had folks of color missing in action- or subserviently in action. Why might the 
police officer be any different from the nurse, the loan officer, the doctor, the business owner, or 
most unfortunately- the teacher? It pains me to say that last one, but it’s true. I imagine the visual 
images of the deaths of Black men have caused Americans to discover the failure of integration- 
yes- the failure.  

American race relations have long been stagnant and America has been in denial. Child 
Psychologist, Erik Erikson, clearly revealed how an individual will become stagnant if they are 
unable to navigate through key sociocultural forces. Hence, these forces must be acknowledge in 
order to be rectified.  This is the story of American racism.  The nation never navigated through 
these sociocultural forces. We simply attempted to change attitudes with laws. INTEGRATION 
DID NOT WORK BECAUSE WE INTEGRATED YOUTH BUT NOT CONTENT.  If racism is 
learned then our schools have failed to be the vehicle for change. This is the element of the system 
that has allowed the perpetuation of division and institutional segregation. In the face of all the 
African-Americans we have lost at the hands of police officers, we continue to lose millions more 
in the face of institutional racism. WHAT ROLE DO OUR SCHOOLS PLAY IN DECADES OF 
MOUNTING RACIAL TENSIONS? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  nearly  twenty  years  I  have  taught  in  juvenile  court  classrooms  disproportionately 
comprised of Black and Brown males.  I intentionally chose this setting.  In recent years, I have 
often heard the media maintain that Black on Black or Brown or Brown murders are the biggest 
factor in the deaths of these populations.  I concur….sort of.  In actuality,  these groups are the 
most impacted by the failures of integration.  Access to integrated content fosters an appreciation 
of diversity and self-esteem. I see me in the content –I see a future for me.  The lack of diverse 
content makes some feel invisible, and they consequently begin to define themselves through other 
means.  Thus, the impacts of racism are both external (police brutality) and internal (self-hate and 
self-destruction).   

Consequently, I don’t solely fault the officers we’ve captured on our phones for acting on 
a belief. It happens daily in all of our institutions. Phones are often not recording the scenes that 
occur in banks, or schools, or courtrooms- so we don’t capture these deaths.  I fault a system that 
failed to show positive images of my ancestors in the textbooks to these officers when they were 
children.  I fault a system that omitted the truth about the diverse contributions of all groups to this 
country’s  fabric.    Decades  ago  Jonathan  Kozol’s  Death  at  an  Early  Age  revealed  the  brutal 
consequences of racism in education.  His novel captures the brutal destruction of the mind and 
spirit of African-American youth at the hands of a racist school system. We can’t rally around the 
concept  of  “knowledge  is  power”  and  yet  not  hold  schools  accountable  for  the  children  who 
become  racist  adults.  I  often  criticized  Zora  Neal  Hurston  and  Carter  G.  Woodson  in  their 
opposition to integration. Now I get it- I understand the premise of their argument.   The physical 
proximity  of  students  does  not  guarantee  equity  or  opportunity  if  the  content  reinforces  racial 
doctrines of the past. While I celebrate integrated settings, children can be in segregated spaces 
embracing the truth while embracing other cultures- so long as that truth is colorful, diverse, and 
equitable.  Just  let  it  be  the  truth.  These  incidents  reveal  that  too  many  officers-  too  many 
Americans- just don’t know the truth about African-Americans. 

I pray that schools will change what children are required to learn- in order to change what 
adults grow up to believe.  This is the true seed for a new kind of flower. I hope that you will lead 
the nation with this initiative. This is what true INTEGRATION should look like. Thank you.  

Sincerely and In Solidarity, 

Florence Avognon, 
Juvenile Court School Educator, 

 
