From: Derrick Saenz-Payne  
Sent: Wednesday, July 1, 2020 11:12 AM 
To: CFIRD  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Help and Support 

Hello,  

My name is Derrick Saenz-Payne. I am a social studies teacher at Ceres High School in 
Ceres, CA, near Modesto. As of the end of this academic school year, I have taught 
Ethnic Studies as an elective for juniors and seniors for two years. When I was asked to 
teach Ethnic Studies by my school administrators, I was provided little resources as this 
course was new to the district. After researching many textbooks, I selected American 
Ethnicity: The Dynamics and Consequences of Discrimination, by Adalberto Aguirre Jr. 
and Jonathan Turner. After teaching this material for two years, I feel that the textbook's 
content and format has the potential to be a framework used if/when Ethnic Studies 
becomes a required class in CA.  

After reading about the controversies surrounding last year's curriculum rollout, 
the American Ethnicity textbook addresses most of the concerns discussed as the 
curriculum proposal was rolled out. Although Superintendent Thurman has recently 
narrowed the scope of the class to the four main groups affected by discrimination, 
the American Ethnicity textbook does a great job detailing a variety of ethnic groups in a 
uniform way. Every ethnic group detailed in the textbook is covered in a way that 
mirrors other ethnic groups, which ensures that each ethnic subpopulation gets equal 
representation within the text. For example, the section on White Americans is broken 
down into three subgroups: Italian Americans, Jewish Americans, and Irish Americans. 
When the text discusses each of these groups, the same format and topics are used to 
guide the discussion/material. At the start of each section covering an ethnic group, 
there is a dedicated subsection that describes the resources allocated to that specific 
group. Following the overview of resource shares for each ethnic group, the text then 
moves to discuss the identifiability and various stereotypes faced by that group; 
followed by the different types of discrimination faced by that ethnic subpopulation. In 
short, no matter which ethnic group is being discussed, all of the ethnic groups detailed 
in the text follow the same format with the same amount of depth. Based on the 
uniformity of the material across all ethnic groups, students are exposed to each ethnic 
group in similar depth in a comparative way and the material is easier to organize for 

  
  
  
teachers because each ethnic subpopulation is covered the same way (making lesson 
planning easier).  

In addition, there was a concern about bias in the curriculum. Another thing I like about 
the American Ethnicity textbook is that the material is based on numerical data, not 
subjective opinions. The textbook is full of charts and data that show all of the issues 
and discrepancies in numbers. After analyzing the data, students study these numbers 
and then dig into the history and policies that impact/influence said data. In my 
experiences with parents and even school district board members, basing the 
conversations and discussions on data has made the adoption of the class much more 
popular and acceptable.  

Note: The textbook needs to be updated, as the most recent edition was published in 
2011 so the data is a bit outdated. Also, the textbook was designed for a junior college 
course, so the material can be dense and complex for high schoolers. If the text could be 
updated to reflect more current data and adjusted to include more images and age-
appropriate explanations, the textbook would be similar to the rigor of other high 
school social studies classes and provide Ethnic Studies teachers with a solid and 
equitable framework for the class.   

On a separate note: I have some great testimony from students who took my class that I 
feel could help advocate the importance of the class. I would love to help promote 
Ethnic Studies as a required class. Please let me know how I can help.    

It's a GREAT day to be a BULLDOG! 

Mr. Derrick Saenz-Payne 
History and Ethnic Studies Instructor 
MPGT Academy Co-Director 
Ceres High School 

  
  
  
  
  
 
 
