From: Sami Kitmitto   
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 9:41 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Please support the ESMC, including Arab American studies AS IS 

Dear members of the Instructional Quality Commission, 

I am writing to urge you to 1) support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, 2) with Arab 
American Studies included, and 3) with Arab American studies included AS IS. 

First, I'm sure you are aware of the importance of ethinic studies for academic as well as social 
and emotional outcomes. It is not just practitioners and community groups who can testify to 
power of Ethnic Studies, but the recent Dee and Penner (2017) study provides strong empirical 
evidence as well. In the current moment of the George Floyd protests and the xenophobia 
levied at Asian Americans as part of the COVID19 pandemic, the need to challenge systemic 
racism in all spheres could not be more urgent. Ethnic studies is crucial for starting to address 
systemic racism and bias in education.   

Second, the inclusion of Arab American studies is similarly urgent at this time due to the 
intensity of Islamophobia at this time. For the past 20 years at least, there has been intesive 
efforts to falesly paint Arabs and Islam as an "existential threat" to the United States. This false 
fear has been used to justify ongoing US wars, militarization, and support for repressive regimes 
in the Middle East as well as justification for rewriting the laws on tourture post-911. The brunt of 
these attacks is severely felt by Arab American youth in schools as documented in two 
successive reports by the Arab Youth Organization (AYO 2012, 2020). As much as any group 
impacted by systemic racism in the US, Arab American youth need to be included in the Ethnic 
Studies curriculum.  

Third, I am aware that you are likely hearing right wing opposition to the curriculum and the 
inclusion of Arab American studies in whole or in part. I urge you to keep the curriculum AS IS. 
Let me try an analogy... have you ever heard it claimed in the media or by right wing pundits 
that "Black Lives Matter is a terrorist organization" or that the call for "Black Lives Matter is 
racist"?  I suspect that you can easily see through the lies behind those false claims and I urge 
you to also see through the similar (and similarly false) claims being made about the Arab 
American studies curriculum. Those in opposition claim that the inclusion of Arab American 
studies and, in particular, aspects of the curriculum that talk about the history of Palestine and 
Palestinians is antisemitic, exlusionary, and/or racist. Yet there is no basis for those claims if you 
look at the curriculum. Additionally, there are many social justice organizations, including Jewish 
organizations, who have verified that these claims are false (see the statements of 
support: https://savearabamericanstudies.org/statements-of-support/).  Those in opposition to Arab 
American studies and discussions of Palestine do not want their power and 
privilege challenged in any way and such outrageous claims are their usual tactic.  

Finally, I want to point out that the opposition to the Arab Studies curriculum should in fact be 
proof to you of its need and importance. Right wing forces are asking you to silence Arab and 
Palestinian voices from telling their history. That sort of racism is the motivating factor behind 
the creation of Ethnic Studies and should be all the proof you need to keep Arab American 
studies in the ESMC and to keep it as is. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you, 
Sami Kitmitto    

References 
Arab Youth Organization. (2012). Teaching Understanding & Representing Arabs Throughout 
History T.U.R.A.T.H. Arab Resource and Organizing Center: San Francisco, CA. Retrieved 
from: http://araborganizing.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/TURATH-Report-.pdf    
Arab Youth Organization. (2020). TURATH: Teaching Understanding & Representing Arabs 
Throughout History. Arab Resource and Organizing Center: San Francisco, CA. Retrieved 
from: http://araborganizing.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/TURATH_ArabYouthinSchools_2020.pdf  
Dee, T., & Penner, E. (2017). The Causal Effects of Cultural Relevance: Evidence from an 
Ethnic Studies Curriculum. American Educational Research Journal, 54(1), 127-166.    

 
 
 
