From: Gayle Rosenthal  
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 7:38 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Blatant anti-semitism in curriculum 

Dear Commissioner Chao, 

I want to register my concern as a United States citizen and as a Jew, regarding 
demands by Palestinian radical activists over ethnic studies curriculum. 

Israeli Arabs and descendents of Palestinian Arabs  
are second and third generation removed from true "refugees".  Rather than assimilate 
like the countless  
displaced populations have done across the globe, and across time,  these residents of 
other nations like Jordan and Lebanon, are unfairly privileged with inherited 
refugee status.     They are the only refugee population in history to be so privileged.  In 
addition, Jordan and Lebanon largely refuse to grant them citizenship. 
Refugee descendants  who  
have settled in the United States abuse the privilege of freedom of speech by agitating 
against Israel and fomenting violence against Jews all over the world, including Europe 
and Latin America.  Arab countries such as Jordan, Syria and Lebanon foment hatred 
and war with Israel, when in fact they themselves are  guilty of  ethnic cleansing of 
countless Jews over the past 70 years and also of confiscating their land and property. 

It does not take much of an internet search to find the hate-filled message of student 
and advocacy groups who demand the right of return to Israel and who advocate for an 
end to the State of Israel. Such would 
change the course of history and cause the displacement of Jews in Israel who have 
either generations of Jews before them or have been 
themselves ethnically cleansed from Europe and  
the Middle East. 

Any curriculum should stick to the facts: 
1. MODERN HISTORY OF JEWS: 
There were 15 million Jews in the world before the Holocaust.   There are barely 15 
million Jews in the entire world today, 70 years later.   

2. ANCIENT HISTORY OF JEWS: 
There have been more than 2,000 years of ethnic cleansing of Jews in Europe  and the 
Middle East, beginning with the Babylonian Captivity 2,500 years ago, the Roman 
sacking of  Israel and the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 AD.  

3. RELIGIOUS HISTORY OF JEWS, MUSLIMS,  
AND CHRISTIANS: 
Judaism is the source faith of the 3 Abrahamic faiths. 
This is a chronological fact.  Both Christianity and Islam are derivatives of Judaism. 
Judaism is the foundation faith and remains small because it does  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
not encourage or offer mass conversion or forced conversion. Jews have also been 
persecuted throughout history which keeps their numbers small  
as a proportion of world population.  Judaism is also the source the most universally 
accepted moral code throughout and across history, including our U.S. 
Constitution. 

4. THE VALUE OF LITERACY  
Jews have been the earliest people to bring literacy to their general population. This is 
the source of their advanced cultural development. They hold a disproportionate 
number of Nobel Prizes and  
excel in all professions disproportionately.  Vile stereotypes and screeds about Jews in 
media  and banking are  unjust and wrong.  

Commissioner Chao, please share this message with 
all of  your committees and curriculum development experts. I beseech you.... if our 
country continues  
on this path to allow the foment of Jew-hatred, there will be a second Holocaust in the 
making and California will be  guilty of not only anti-semitism,  
but of contributing to ethnic cleansing and also of genocide.  

Regards, 
Gayle Rosenthal 
Austin, Texas 

 
 
 
 
