From: Richard Eidman   
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 8:12 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] AB - 2016 

Dear Soomin Chao, 

I am writing to protest the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft currently being adopted by 
California school boards.  

To quote the California Legislative Jewish Caucus, I “cannot support a curriculum that erases 
the American Jewish experience, fails to discuss anti-Semitism, reinforces negative stereotypes 
about Jews, singles out Israel for criticism and would institutionalize the teaching of anti-
Semitic stereotypes in our public schools. 

I have a Masters in Psychology and understand the impact of this bill would be far ranging for 
changing attitudes and reinforcing systemic racism, and hatred that our country, and the world 
have worked to eradicate. 6 million Jews perished because of teachings such as these. I 
believe  history needs to be taught in balanced fashion, which means hearing and attempting 
too understand everybody’s story. Ignoring one minority to discuss others 

We are all living in a democracy that encourages and prizes free speech and sharing of factual 
information. As the experience of Nazi Germany has taught us, systemic hatred is reinforced by 
teaching it to our youth. 
The curriculum for AB-2016 violates everything I have ever experienced in a U.S., and 
democratic country's school curriculum. 

I implore you to not support this agenda and to promote more balance in the way we teach our 
next generations of students. Please remember this quote regarding the Nazi’s:  

First they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out—because I was not a socialist. 
Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out— because I was not a trade 
unionist. 
Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out—because I was not a Jew. 
Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me. 

Pastor Martin Niemöller 

Thanks, 

Thanks, 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rich Eidman 
President 
Seymour & Associates Inc. 
Executive Recruitment- Display Industry Experts 

 
