From: Richard Sherman  
Sent: Saturday, July 25, 2020 11:21 AM 
To: IQC; Shanine Coats; Constantino Silva; Susan Sweeney  
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Contemporaneous Information 

Dear Jose Iniquez(Instructional Quality Commission Member), Shanine Coats(Executive Director, 
Instructional Quality Commission), Constantino Silva( Administrator, Curriculum Framework Unit), and 
Susan Sweeney( Analyst, Director's Office): 
The California Department of Education has received a letter/email from "California Scholars For 
Academic Freedom" 
claiming without any supportive documentation that the "Nabka or catastrophe" resulted from "Zionist 
paramilitary forces planned and executed expulsion of over 750,000 Palestinians in 1948". 
The actual facts as documented in contemporaneous Arab media as described below reveal that Arab 
leadership commanded the Palestinian population to leave their homes in anticipation of a quick Arab 
annihilation of the Jewish people. 
On February 19, 1949 the Jordanian daily "Falastin" reported "the Arab state which had 
encouraged the Palestine Arabs to leave their homes temporarily in order to be out of the way of 
the Arab invasion armies, have failed to keep their promise to help these refugees". 
On April 3, 1949 the Near East Arabic Broadcasting Station reported: "It must not be forgotten 
that the Arab Higher Committee encouraged the refugees' flight from their homes in Jaffa, Haifa 
and Jerusalem". 
On October 12, 1963 the Egyptian  daily "Akbbar El Yom" reported that : "The 15th May, 1948 
arrived...On that day the mufti of Jerusalem ( the Grand Mufti Amin al-Husseini) appealed to the 
Arabs of Palestine to leave the country, because the Arab armies were about to enter and fight 
in their stead". 
On April 9, 1953 the Jordanian daily "Al Urdan" reported: "For the flight and fall of the other 
villages it is our leaders who are responsible because of their dissemination of rumours 
exaggerating Jewish crimes and describing them as atrocities in order to inflame the Arabs..By 
spreading rumours of Jewish atrocities, killings of women and children etc., they instilled fear 
and terror in the hearts of the Arabs in Palestine, until they fled leaving their homes and 
properties to the enemy". 
Even the contemporaneous reporting of "The Economist" makes clear that the "Nakba'  was self 
inflicted. On October 3, 1948 "The Economist" reported: "Of the 62,000 Arabs who formerly 
lived in Haifa not more than 5,000 or 6,000 remained. Various factors influenced their decision 
to seek safety in flight. There is but little doubt that the most potent of the factors were the 
announcements made over the air by the Higher Arab Executive, urging the Arabs to quit...It 
was clearly intimated that those Arabs who remained in Haifa and accepted Jewish protection 
would be regarded as renegades". 
Finally while the sixteen signatories who represent the "California Scholars for Academic 
Freedom" have credentials from prestigious institutions, none of them indicate that they are 
members of the Palestine Liberation Organization. In that regard I would ask you to study for a 
moment the words of 
 Palestine Liberation Organization Executive Committee Member Zahir Muhsein who in a 1977 
interview in the Dutch newspaper "Trouw" stated  that the Palestinian people were a 
propaganda invention: 
"The Palestinian people does not exist. The creation of a Palestinian state is only a means for 
continuing our struggle against the state of Israel for our Arab unity. In reality today there is no 
difference between Jordanians, Palestinians, Syrians and Lebanese. Only for political and 
tactical reasons do we speak today about the existence of a Palestinian people, since Arab 
national interests posit the existence of a distinct 'Palestinian people' to oppose Zionism. 

  
"For tactical reasons, Jordan, which is a soverign state with defined borders, cannot raise claims 
to Haifa and Jaffa, while as a Palestinian, I can undoubtedly demand Haifa, Jaffa, Beer-Sheva 
and Jerusalem. However, the moment we reclaim our right to all of Palestine, we will not wait a 
moment to unite Palestine and Jordan". 
I would ask when you evaluate the claims of the "California Scholars For Academic Freedom", 
compare those myriad contemporaneous Arab media''s description of the "Nakba",  and balance 
the signatories' overall claims with PLO Executive Committee member Zahir Mushein's studied 
description of "the Palestinian people". 
Thank you for your time. 
Richard Sherman, Margate, Florida 

 
