From: SALLY FOX  
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2020 10:21 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Soomin Chao 

Dear  Soomin Chao, 
         I am concerned about the proposed ethic studies  curriculum with a not 
so hidden anti-Semitic agenda.  This has been long coming. At Chico State U., 
in the 80s, classes led by a least one top  Jewish scholar/professor was usually 
interrupted by skin heads loudly ingesting their phlegm (through their noses) 
nonstop. The university admin had at least one visible anti-Semite (a woman 
who was constantly posing) sometimes stalking and harassing Jewish 
students. And some faculty were anti-Semitic. I eventually went to court and 
lost my case over the terrible treatment of Jews. 
      San Francisco State had similar problems minus the stalker  but with a 
few anti-Semites who were teachers. Two renowned Jewish scholars, Dr. Jules 
Tygiel and Moses Rischen  had to be polite to  anti-Semitic students 
who  incessantly  harassed and interrupted the class. At  UC Berkeley, some of 
the TA’s  were abusive to Jewish students,  but that could be because they 
were just unprofessional.  I went to court, alnd lost my case. A year or so later, 
another group of students went to court, and they won their case about the 
prevailing,  on campus anti-Semitism 
     At   Cañada College, students heckled Jewish students and faculty. They 
also heckled Asian faculty.  I recall, as a substitute teacher, the regular 
teacher  demanded I show an  obscene movie for a lesson which he had 
selected for an economics class. I had already worked as a temp at the Institute 
of Business and Economic Research on the UC Berkeley campus for summer 
work years earlier and knew this had nothing to do with economics. Jewish 
teachers are often put in the worst light, and at times, have to do additional 
work on behalf of their supervisors because  Jewish people are likely to  have 
had a better  education (despite all the interruptions and ostracism)  and more 
experience than their supervisors. I tried to speak to the to president of the 
school. I then wrote several letters  and sent emails to the head Chancellor of 
all Community colleges in California. I also telephoned, to no avail. No one 
responded. 
      I think in public education in California, Jewish students  are often singled 
out and ostracized. Staff from the Oriental Language Dept. at Berkeley (none of 
whom were Chinese) attended anti-Israeli rallies in the school plaza  where 
Palestinians would chant, "Death to Israel" and I am pretty sure a couple of the 
faculty members were carrying pro-Palestinian signs but the  rallies held were 
in the context of the destruction of Israel. Somehow,  in front of Dwinelle, 
someone or persons put up/hung  a big sheet with the words painted, “Death 
to Israel”.  And Berkeley wonders why everyone isn’t banging at their door to 
give Berkeley donations. 
       In public schools, administration has learned,  an avenue to gain 
popularity might require marginalizing Jewish faculties’ productivity and 

  
ingenuity.  This is light of downsizing and more focus on turning to the tech 
industry for software or online learning practice.  So the art of  collusion is not 
a facet of minds melding, it’s the maintenance of  a misfunctioning hierarchy 
leading to a  trickle down, racialized nudge-nudge,  wink-wink dynamic. 
I  recall listening to an aide in  public education ranting about a darling young 
boy who is half Jewish. I was shocked to hear her ongoing negativity and she 
became abusive toward me when I defended him.  Public education needs 
ethnic studies, about celebrating spiritual plurality as opposed to more anti-
Semitism. 
                                 Best regards, 
                                 Sally A. Fox 

 
