From: Larry Shapiro 
Sent: Sunday, July 26, 2020 8:19 AM 
To: Deniece Figueroa 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] California Scholars For Academic Freedom 

July 25, 2020 

Cliff Rudnick 
Administrator Instructional Resource Unit Californian Department of Education 

Dear Mr. Rudnick 

The California Department of Education has received a letter from California Scholars For Academic Freedom 
wanting California's curriculum to include false information relating to the displacement of Arabs during Israel's 
war of independence when if you can remember, the moment Israel announced its establishment it was attacked 
by five neighboring countries determined to erase the new state. 

During this war, Arab villagers were told by their leaders to move away until the victorious Arab armies liberated 
the land at which time they would return. Israel won and the villagers never came back. I suppose one could say 
that it was Israel's fault for winning the war, but it's a stretch to blame it for the deliberate dispersal of 750,000 
many who ended up in Lebanon and Syria and by the way treated as second class citizens by these Arab countries. 
Now that's a topic that should be included in your curriculum. 

Here's another topic that students deserve to learn, and that is that fully 20% of Israel's population are Arabs who 
live in peace with all the benefits and responsibilities provided Israel's Jewish population. 

Here is another amazing story that students of the Middle East deserve to learn. Following the establishment of 
Israel, 1 million Jews in Arab lands were dispossessed and forced to flee. Jews had been living in these countries for 
centuries, in Iraq's case for 2000 years. One million displaced Jews were taken in by Israel and assimilated. Today 
50% of Israel's population is descended from these refugees. Contrast this to the PA refusal to bring Palestinian 
refugees into the Arab areas or to offer them citizenship in the new country of Palestine. By design, the Palestinian 
government has cruelly kept these people as refugees simply to oppose Israel. 

I'll bet that the California Scholars For Academic Freedom didn't include any of this information in their submission 
which tells me that they are neither scholars or support academic freedom.  

The California Scholars For Academic Freedom claim to have documentation proving Israel's role in deliberately 
driving Arabs from their homes. Bring it on. A proper vetting will reveal that the documentation is as phony as their 
claim. 

Sincerely yours, 

Larry Shapiro, 
Rancho Mirage, CA 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
