From: dave martin  
Sent: Monday, July 27, 2020 10:19 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] This must end 

California school boards are in the process of adopting a curriculum that has been accused of promoting anti-
Semitic and radical anti-Israel content, despite the Jewish community’s vocal objections. 

Over the past several months, a group called “Save California Ethnic Studies” has tried to exploit the corona 
pandemic by getting school boards throughout the state to “rubber-stamp” a curriculum that has been flagged as 
radically anti-Israel and anti-Semitic. 

The agenda, called California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft (ESMCD), was the subject of a recent letter 
signed by 88 state and national organizations addressed to the California Department of Education (CDE). 

The controversy stems from the ESMCD’s “Arab American Studies Course Outline,” which promotes anti-Israel 
boycotts (BDS) and focuses on figures accused of anti-Semitism, such as Palestinian-American activist Linda 
Sarsour, Reps. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) and Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), and deceased White House correspondent Helen 
Thomas. 

In the current push to adopt the ESMCD, members of the school board are “led to believe that in voting for the 
resolution they are showing support for AB-2016 and affirming the importance of ethnic studies classes in general, 
rather than endorsing the highly controversial draft curriculum [ESMCD] that was condemned by dozens of state 
leaders and tens of thousands of Californians,” stated the letter from 88 organizations. 

In August 2019, California lawmakers, Jewish organizations, and pro-Israel groups helped put the brakes on the 
ESMCD due to its bias, and the California Board of Education “announced that it would substantially revise its 
current draft ethnic studies curriculum, noting that it did ‘not yet fully align with the statutory requirements’ and 
the state’s guidelines,” JNS reported. 

Among those who agreed that the curriculum should have “greater balance” and address the concern’s of the 
Jewish community were State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond and Lieutenant Governor Eleni 
Kounalakis. 

However, JNS reported that in the midst of the coronavirus crisis, as elected officials work to address public health 
concerns, at least 13 California school boards passed resolutions supporting adoption of the ESMCD. 

This move is an end-run around legitimate concerns about anti-Semitism and anti-Israel bias in the California 
Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft 

Sincerely/Shalom 
Dave Martin 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
