From: Ronald D. Fellman  
Sent: Tuesday, July 28, 2020 2:16 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Fellman, Ronald D. 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Anti-Semitic and Radical Anti-Israel Content in California Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum Draft 

Dear Chairperson Soomin Chao:  

I understand that as the Chair of the California Instructional Quality Commission, you 
would have a say in the adoption of any changes in the California school curriculum. I want to 
bring to your attention the fact that the new draft of the California Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum (ESMCD) contains disturbing antisemitic and radical anti-Israel content. In 
particular, the ESMCD's "Arab American Studies Course Outline" promotes the anti-Israel BDS 
Boycott movement, which lies about the Palistine-Israel situation and even radical-left Jewish 
organizations many prominent Muslim leaders say is counter-productive and would actually 
harm Palestinians by eliminating many of their jobs with Israeli companies.  

I would hope that you would agree that any truthful and balanced curricula should not be 
biased nor politically motivated. We must strive to teach facts from all viewpoints and not 
indoctrinate our students. Basic education must, first and foremost, give students a firm 
foundation of the basic skills they will need to survive in the workplace, primarily, reading 
comprehension and analysis, proper writing style and grammar, and a firm grasp of 
mathematics and science, especially the Scientific Method.  

Political propaganda and racial and religious bias have no place in our children's curricula.  

Please reassure me that you will be taking a critical look at the ESMCD and heed the advice and 
opinions of the dozens of state leaders and tens of thousands of Californians who have already 
written to object to this new curriculum and that you will over-rule the adoption of the ESMCD 
by the 13+ California school boards that pass resolutions favoring this severely flawed program.  

In particular, please understand that the ESMCD, as it currently stands, erases the American 
Jewish experience, fails to discuss antisemitism, reinforces negative stereotypes about Jews, 
singles out Israel for criticism and would institutionalize the teaching of anti-Semitic 
stereotypes in our public schools.  

I hope that you would be as sensitive to the plight of Jews facing antisemitism and the violence 
we now see erupting around the world, including the recent murder of Jews even here in the 
US, as you are to other minorities.  

Thank you for your consideration.  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely yours,  
-ron fellman  

 
