From: alice nguyen   
Sent: Monday, July 27, 2020 9:51 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] It’s never been clearer how important Ethnic Studies is 

Dear Ethnic Studies Open Comment, 

An enlightened populace begins with primary school education. The US primary school curricula 
is extremely narrow in terms of culture and history. This is painfully obvious even in casual 
conversation with any international student studying in the US; they demonstrate vast more 
knowledge of international AND US current events than their US peer. Students need 
comprehensive Ethnic Studies in their K-12 curriculum to build empathy, sense of community, 
understanding and broader knowledge of different cultures and histories around the world. It is 
imperative preparation for children growing up in world permeated by globalization trends.  
The CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) is structured around the core pillars developed 
by the founders of Ethnic Studies in 1969: American Indian studies, Africana/Black studies, 
Chicanx/Latinx studies, and Asian American studies. Following a decades-long tradition in 
higher education, the ESMC includes Arab American studies within Asian American studies.  

Leading Asian American scholars, including the National Association of Asian American studies, 
have issued statements defending the inclusion of Arab American studies in the CA ESMC.  

Ethnic Studies has been linked to increases in positive personal, academic, and social outcomes 
for students.  

In the post-9/11 era, exacerbated by Trump’s Muslim ban, Arab American students are 
desperately in need of curriculum that reflects their histories and current realities.  

TURATH (Teaching Understanding and Representing Arabs Throughout History) is a 2020 report 
researched and written by the teenage members of Arab Youth Organizing (AYO). According to 
AYO’s findings, more than 66% of the students surveyed said they received most of their 
information on Arabs and/or Muslims from the internet or television; only 2.3% learned about 
Arabs and/or Muslims at school. 

Sincerely, 
alice nguyen 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
