From: Julie Roberts  
Sent: Friday, July 3, 2020 6:10 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies; Superintendent; [email redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Keep Ethnic studies whole 

Dear State Superintendent Tony Thurmond and CDE President Linda Darling-Hammond, 

I'm a Jewish parent of children attending a school with a high percentage of Arab students, and 
I'm writing to ask you to keep Arab American studies in the California ethnic studies curriculum. 
This is important to my children so they have a complete and accurate curriculum, and also for 
the Arab families which my children attend school with. Ethnic studies is a key strategy for 
student achievement -- when students don't see their histories and stories reflected in their 
curriculum it creates barriers to engagement. Leaving Arab American studies out of ethnic 
studies would leave my children with a knowledge gap and leave them vulnerable to racist anti-
Arab stereotypes that are common in our culture. 

CA data collection makes Arab families invisible in our school data -- there is no category for 
Middle Eastern or Arab -- so they are invisibilized in the "white" racial category. In lighter 
moments, families joke about the harassment they experience even in the streets of 
"progressive" San Francisco and wonder where their white privilege is when their kids are 
called "terrorist." In more heavy moments, people have gotten emotional and shared that they 
feel like they can't leave the neighborhood safely. 

During the Muslim Ban, I was doing yard duty and a 4th grader told me how things were hard 
for her right now because her aunt wasn't able to come back to the US. It was heartwrenching 
for me to hear this story, and the way Anti-Arab racism cut through this child's family. At the 
same time, Arab children and families in our school did not take this oppression without 
resisting -- they heroically shut down SFO and got people detained at the airport released. 
Ethnic studies means Arab American educators telling the full stories of Arab communities. It 
can't be implemented without Arab American scholars and ethnic studies practitioners. 

As a Jewish person, I feel it is important to have education about Palestine which includes 
Palestinian voices in our curriculum. It is not anti-Semetic to teach facts about Israel and its 
treatment of the Palestinain people. It took me too long to become educated about the 
experience of Palestinian families partly because so much of our culture defers to pro-Israel 
advocates whose priorities do not reflect my Jewish values. This would be like deciding not to 
teach about South Africa under aparthaid because the white minority there didn't want us to 
listen to the experiences of Nelson Mandela and other organizers. 

I urge you to keep ethnic studies whole, which means including Arab American studies intact, 
and developing curriculum with Arab American and Ethnic Studies educators. It's the right thing 
for Arab American students, and for my children. 

Best, 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Julie 

My pronouns are: she/her/hers 

  
  
 
