The California Department of Education received more than 10,000 
submissions that contained the text below. Other identical comments 
may have been posted separately.  

From: Joslyn Gardner  
Sent: Wednesday, July 8, 2020 11:20 AM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save Ethnic Studies! Tell Arab American Stories. 

Dear Ethnic Studies Open Comment, 

It’s never been clearer how important Ethnic Studies is and we urge you to support the 
inclusion of Arab American studies in the Asian American studies curriculum.  

The racial disparities in the impact of Covid-19, the xenophobic targeting of Asian Americans as 
“vectors” of disease, and the national uprising in response to the murder of George Floyd point 
to the need for anti-racist education: All students need comprehensive Ethnic Studies in their K-
12 curriculum to build empathy, unity and solidarity with each other, strengthening our 
movements for justice.  

The ESMC is structured around the core pillars developed by the founders of Ethnic Studies in 
1969: American Indian studies, Africana/Black studies, Chicanx/Latinx studies, and Asian 
American studies. Following a decades-long tradition in higher education, the ESMC includes 
Arab American studies within Asian American studies.  

Leading Asian American scholars, including the National Association of Asian American studies, 
have issued statements defending the inclusion of Arab American studies in the CA ESMC.  

Ethnic Studies has been linked to increases in positive personal, academic, and social outcomes 
for students.  

In the post-9/11 era, exacerbated by Trump’s Muslim ban, Arab American students are 
desperately in need of curriculum that reflects their histories and current realities.  

TURATH (Teaching Understanding and Representing Arabs Throughout History) is a 2020 report 
researched and written by the teenage members of Arab Youth Organizing (AYO). According to 
AYO’s findings, more than 66% of the students surveyed said they received most of their 
information on Arabs and/or Muslims from the internet or television; only 2.3% learned about 
Arabs and/or Muslims at school. 

Sincerely, 
Joslyn Gardner 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
