From: Raja Gangopadhya  
Sent: Wednesday, July 8, 2020 4:32 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [email redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] You must include Arab American Studies in the CA Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

Hi, 

I understand that the IQC is meeting in August to consider a revised curriculum for Ethnic 
Studies, and there has been opposition to keeping the CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
intact, including the proposed Arab American studies curriculum. 

I am emailing you today as an Arab American born and raised in the United States, and as 
someone who previously worked in education in a support capacity (not as an educator, but 
worked closely with educators). I believe strongly that insufficient cultural and historical 
competency is at the root of many conflicts today, and that learning about Arab culture and 
history are an essential aspect of any true peace movement. 

The question of whether it is antisemitic to cover Arab American studies is a disingenuous one 
to me. It suggests that Arabs are inherently antisemitic, and that somehow studying our history 
and culture is in opposition to the Jewish struggle for self-determination and freedom. On the 
contrary, Arab and Jewish culture have much in common, and an honest study of our cultures 
would do much to heal wounds in a complex conflict, rather than exacerbate them or unfairly 
tip the scales of power in favor of one perspective over the other. Instead, it fundamentally 
changes the conversation. For this reason, the history and current struggles of Palestine must 
be included in any curriculum. 

I sincerely hope you take this request to heart. If you believe in the purpose of education, in the 
value of knowledge and its contribution to the arc of justice, you must also believe in including 
Arab American studies in the curriculum. Not to do so is to selectively exclude a body of 
knowledge essential to understanding the world we live in, and hence it is irresponsible not to 
expose students to Arab American studies. The knowledge gained will only help learners be 
better equipped to face the many challenges we as a human race face in the next hundred 
years. 

Thank you, 
Raja Gangopadhya 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
