From: Fadi Saba  
Sent: Wednesday, July 8, 2020 1:58 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Curriculum public comment 

July 8, 2020 

Dear members of the IQC and State Superintendent Thurmond, 

My name is Fadi Saba, a proud California Arab-American teacher, union leader and peace and 
justice activist.  I'm president of our CTA Chapter, Luther Burbank Education Association, which 
has taught me the importance of solidarity between groups, and putting ourselves in the shoes 
of other communities.  I hold a single subject social studies and multiple subject credentials and 
have taught in high school, middle school, and now elementary school.  In the upper grades, I 
have been a US and World History teacher.  In 5th grade, I teach math and US history.  Hence, I 
understand and know the history curriculum in California; and I recognize how ethnic minorities 
end up with the 'short end of the stick'.  I write you my personal experiences in California's 
public school to impress upon you to vote for the Ethnic Studies Curriculum as it was originally 
presented. 

For these reasons, I was elated that the State is interested in an ethnic studies curriculum that 
will encourage teachers to teach about minority ethnic experiences in California.  This is 
critical.  As an Arab American student, I was bullied and misunderstood all the way through 
12th grade.  In 1978, I entered 6th grade upon my family's immigration to the US in 1978.  That 
school year, most of my peers thought my father 'owned oil wells' and they hoped he would 
give them one (remember that this follows the Arab oil embargo in the 1970's).  Others 
thought, since I was born in Africa, I had lived in trees in the jungle and we didn't have 
automobiles.  Unacceptable stereotypes.  Stereotypes that later, if not dealt with, become 
racist thoughts, and possibly actions.   

The following year, after the 1979 Iranian revolution and the US hostage crisis, it was 'all my 
fault'.  I was the reason for Americans held hostage.  I was attacked and bullied for being Arab-
American.  This continued through high school.  I was the terrorist.  I was the reason for US 
misery.  I was the reason for the US marines were attacked in Beirut, Lebanon in the 1980's.  I 
was the reason for all attacks on US interests.  And why?  Because I'm an Arab-American?  Or is 
it because my peers had not a clue about my culture, history, experiences?  The answer is 
both.  They only knew I'm from that part of the world, but knew nothing about my culture, 
history, or experiences (born a refugee, for example).  As a result of their ignorance, my peers 
saw me as inferior to them.  That I was responsible for every American misery in the Middle 
East.  And very few teachers were supportive of me, which adds salt to the wound.  School was 
not a safe and supportive experience. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
In high school, only two teachers, Mr. Bick and Ms. Pedersen, were supportive and 
helpful.  Ms. Pedersen is a Latina, and understood what it's like to be a target by the dominant 
culture/community (caucasian).  Mr. Bick was a caucasian outlier.  I say this because not a single 
other white teacher showed interest in my history and experiences.  None.  Rather, they added 
to the racist attitude toward me as a Palestinian/Arab-American.  We now call this implicit 
bias.  In middle school, there was one social studies teacher and an African-American academic 
counselor who supported me. 

 As you can imagine, I felt that my Arabness was a negative.  I know of others who refused to 
keep their language.  Some changed their name.  As for me, I felt that I could not speak up and 
defend myself in class; nor did I participate in class like others.  Kids were already initiating 
fights with me specifically because of my background.  If students were given the chance to 
understand how and why Palestinians/Arabs are acting and reacting a certain way, they may 
not behave in such a way toward other students.  Maybe, they will find understanding and be 
supportive.  Maybe, my daughter won't feel as I did.  Won't get into fights as I did.  Won't feel 
isolated and alone as I did.  Maybe she will grow up proud of her heritage as an Arab-Mexican-
American.  

Ethnic studies classes and lessons at schools show a raise in confidence in minority 
students.  And I wrote you my experience because I want you to  support and vote for the 
Ethnic Studies Curriculum as originally presented.  That version allows teachers to teach about 
the Palestinian/Arab-American experience.  The importance of US intervention in the world and 
the Middle East has real, and negative, consequences on our Arab-American (and Arab looking 
stereotyped Sikhs, etc.) students. Understanding oppression on a global scale will help the 
'different' Americans.  Arab-Americans need no less than African Americans and the Latinx 
community.  The grape boycott by UFW is an important part of the Latinx community in our 
state.  So is Palestinian boycott movement.  Americans need to understand our experience to 
appreciate us as equals; and as ones to respect.  We all bring a beautiful culture and heritage 
to California.  Let's celebrate it rather than suppress it. 

If you get rid of the parts on BDS and other political sections in the Arab-American part of the 
Ethnic Studies Curriculum, you are aligning yourself with the bullies.  You are supporting the 
continued fights against kids like me.  You would be OK with students feeling alone, isolated, 
and eating their lunch in the bathroom so as to reduce the chance of being bullied, picked on, 
and ganged up on.  If you are willing to have kids feel this way, go ahead and get rid of these 
sections.  If however you feel that all children deserve a pro-social, positive and safe place to 
learn, then you must keep the original Ethnic Studies Curriculum as presented in 2019. 

I look forward to your support of the Arab-American portion of the Ethnic Studies Curriculum as 
was originally proposed.  Political lobbying by groups is like the bullying I was the victim 
of.  Don't let it get to you.  Stand strong and support the original proposal. 

Should you have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact me by email 
(this is being sent by email, so you should have it). 

 
 
 
 
 
Yours for safer schools, 

Fadi Saba 
Teacher 
President, Luther Burbank Education Association/CTA/NEA 

 
 
 
 
