rom: Tommy Chung  
Sent: Thursday, July 9, 2020 3:30 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies 
Cc: [email redacted]; Superintendent 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save Arab American Studies 

Hello Instructional Quality Commission, 

My name is Tommy, a young Asian American student who a Comparative Ethnic Studies major 
at UC Berkeley. In a discipline where students have constantly fought for their curriculum, and 
in an effort to continue that fight, I ask that you please keep the CA Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum (ESMC) intact and specifically protect Arab American studies in the statewide rubric 
for Asian American studies.  

There are right-wing Zionists that are trying depict Arab American studies, particularly in 
regards to curriculum around Palestine, as anti-Semitic. I want to desperately convey that it is 
not anti-Semitic to shine a light on Palestine, the plight of the Palestinian people, and ongoing 
Palestinian activism. I ask that you please research the actual history of Zionist ideology and the 
Israeli government, with the hope that there is an understanding that Zionism is completely 
different from Judaism. 

Here is a quick summary of something I wrote for a class about Palestine. All this information is 
verifiable and I can send sources if you wish: 

“The founder of Zionism was a man named Theodor Herzl, a secular European Ashkenazi Jew 
who was tired of widespread anti-semitism. He figured that the solution to anti-semitism was 
to create an independent nation state where the biblical Kingdom of Israel was (then British-
occupied Palestine). Before WWII, most Jews were not Zionists because it was popular belief 
that the biblical kingdom of Israel would arise and that Jews would return at the will of God, not 
out of the doings of mortals. It was seen as sacrilege to re-establish Israel at the wrong time. 
Before WW2, British politicians slowly opened up to the idea of supporting a Jewish ethnostate 
because they figured out it was a way to get Jews out of their country without actually 
addressing systemic anti-semitism in the country’s culture and governance. Once WW2 
happened, British and American governments felt the need to prove themselves as “not 
antisemetic” to distinguish themselves from Nazi Germany and absolve themselves of systemic 
anti-semitism. The USA funded Zionism because they feel guilty for refusing to accept refugees 
from Nazi Germany during WWII and because they had imported Nazi scientists to beat the 
USSR in the Cold War (Operation Paperclip). Due to the Holocaust and historical anti-semitism, 
Jews were feeling precarity and danger and “Israel” was the easy answer. The thing was, the 
easy answer relied on settler-colonialism and the violent displacement of Palestinians, who 
were native to the land and whose land has been in families for centuries. This violent 
displacement included a minority of Palestinian Jews who were actually native to the land. 
Sephardi / Mizrahi Jews called Palestine home way before European Ashkenazi Jews did, and 
most were actually opposed to new settlement before WW2. Now there are no more 

  
 
 
 
 
Palestinian Jews because all Jews in Palestine were given Israeli citizenship. Right now, Israeli 
propaganda machine pits Jews and Muslims against each other, making it a polarizing 
Muslim/Jewish conflict or a civilized/uncivilized conflict rather than an issue of Israeli settler-
colonialism and Palestinian self-determination & sovereignty. Currently, the social hierarchy in 
Israeli occupied Palestine looks like 1) European Ashkenazi Jews 2) Mizrahi Jews 3) other 
Central Asian/Soviet descendant Jews 4) other non-Black Jews of color 5) Ethiopian Jews and 
other African / Black Jews 6) Palestinians (Christian, Muslim). Israel does not champion equality 
and is not the answer to global anti-Semitism, which roots lie in white supremacy.” 

The answer to anti-Semitism is not to suppress the true history of Palestine, rather it is to 
include it Ethnic Studies curriculum and to have honest conversations about how to build 
solidarity in the fight against white supremacy. We can fight Islamophobia, xenophobia, 
Orientalism while fighting anti-Semitism. The way we do that is by including Arab American 
Studies in the ESMC. 

Sincerely, 
Tommy 

--  
Tommy Chung (they/them) 
Ethnic Studies 
University of California, Berkeley | Class of 2023 

 
 
 
 
