From: mreichard 
Sent: Friday, August 23, 2019 6:11 PM 
To: Superintendent  
Subject: FW: Article: War of words delays Ethnics Studies Bill 

Dear Superintendent Tony Thurman, 

     I have sent the letter below to the  LA Times as a response to the reports on the Ethnics 
Studies Legislation. I would like to know who provided guidance to this committee to only 
include ethnics studies for people of color (as noted in one of the Time’s articles) and why 
any inclusion/mention of Jewish ethnics studies was not included. I feel the whole 
approach was anti-semitic, including the stated support of the BDS movement.  This is a 
political issue and should not be included in an ethnics program, especially when only one 
side of the issue is presented. 
     How could you think of spending tax payer money to present this type of program? Who 
was monitoring this committee preparing this report/proposal? Based on what was 
presented, I would hope that clear guidelines would be given to the committee handling 
the major re-do and that they would not be biased.  I would also suggest that a totally 
different committee be charged with developing this plan, because those involved in the 
one presented obviously had their own agendas. Why were Moslems included while other 
religious groups were not?  Why were the Palestinians given such prominence in the 
program? It appears that politics were strongly at play. 
     I have sent the President of the State Board of Education, Linda Darling-Hammond, 
multiple responses and have had no reply. I hope that is because she was over-whelmed by 
the negative response to her proposal. She had stated “We will not accept a curriculum 
that fails to address difficult issues in a way that promotes open-mindedness and 
independent thought – skills our students need to understand vital societal and civic 
forces”.  She really missed the stated objective on this proposal. The proposal submitted is 
just the opposite. I would have sent her a copy of this e-mail but could not find an e-mail 
address for her on-line. 
     I am in favor of an ethnicity program for all ethnic groups but not one disguised as an 
ethnics program which favors only limited groups and includes political statements. 
     How about publishing the guidelines for the following study so that if there are any 
issues they can be corrected before a committee spends months working on a plan? 
                                                                    Mark Reichard 
                                                                    San Pedro, California 

Sent: Friday, August 23, 2019 2:51 PM 
To: letters@latimes.com 
Subject: Article: War of words delays Ethnics Studies Bill 

Dear LA Times Editor,  
      It is not the “war of words” that delays the Ethnics Studies Bill, but the poorly written bill itself.  
If those supporting the original bill feel it should only cover people of color, then there is a major 
problem, for it then excludes many other groups.  It also stated that “capitalism is a major enemy of 
people of color”.  Is that what we want taught in our schools?  

 
 
 
 
 
 
      You referenced a Jewish group (Jewish Voice for Peace) as supporting the original proposal. It is 
defined by Wikipedia as a left wing activist organization. It certainly does not represent the mainstream 
Jewish organizations or Jewish thought.  Apparently Palestinian groups have had a major say in 
structuring this program. 
    Any Ethnicity Program has to be inclusive and represent values of all, not just a limited group that has 
gained control of the drafting of this proposal. 
                                                                        Mark Reichard 
                                                                        San Pedro, California 

 
