Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
[Enter the 
Chapter 
Number here, 
or just 
“General” for a 
comment that 
applies to the 
entire 
document.] 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Kenna Veatch 

[Include the page and line number(s) here–Write your comment here] 
Main comments about the Overview. 

1.  This Overview uses inflammatory language. Rather, we should 

continue to focus on learning the history of California and the ways 
we have corrected the hurts done to the Native Americans and 
Mexicans.   

2.  Emphasis should be on fair treatment of each person as an 

individual with his or her skills, personality and passions.   Each 
personal is unique.  However, this curriculum puts individuals in 
“boxes” (by gender, religion, and sexuality).  Each child should treat 
others as he or she wants to be treated.  The motto is “No Bullying”.  
Education should prepare each child to live in a social community. 
Children need to learn communicative skills and how to get along in 
a society.  Each person has worth because they are humans, not 
because of ethnicity.   

 
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Kenna Veatch 

3.  Each child should accept himself or herself as she was born.  Boys should 
be proud that they are born as boys, and girls should be proud that they 
are girls.  Societies and cultures over the millennia were organized into 
male-female groups.  Children know the differences and would be 
confused with this teaching. They would not be able to understand the 
transgender beliefs, and neither would youth going through an emotional 
roller coaster ride.  A child or youth with emotional difficulties need the 
help of a counselor.  This curriculum confuses the child and would harm 
the child.  State Law unfortunately interferes with the parent and 
counselor to help their child.  Some doctors warn that surgery cannot be 
reversed, and they feel deep hurt for the minor who wants reversal 
surgery but cannot receive their natural body back.  This is the 
responsibility of the parent and medical community to help the minor, not 
the State’s responsibility. THE SCHOOL’S RESPONSIBILITY IS TO 
TEACH COURTESY AND MANNERS TO PREPARE THE YOUTH TO 
BE SUCCESSFUL IN SOCIETY. 

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
