ed. . oe
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY
(GP) Nionterey Bay

August 23, 2019 State Superintendent
of Public Instruction
Tony Thurmond AUG 3.0 2019

State Superintendent of Public Instruction
1430 N Street, Suite 5602
Sacramento, CA 95814-5901

Dear Superintendent Thurmond,

I am writing in strong support of the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft. I have
carefully reviewed the draft that was crafted over the spring and approved for public
comment in May by the Instructional Quality Commission. As some background, I have been
actively involved in multicultural education at a national level since the 1980s (I am a past
president of the National Association for Multicultural Education), and in ethnic studies for
almost as long. In addition, I have reviewed the research on the impact of ethnic studies on
students for the National Education Association (NEA) in 2011. My NEA research review is
the only publication specifically noted in the AB 2016 ethnic studies legislation, and I have
written an update of that review for a book about K-12 Ethnic Studies that is currently in
press with Teachers College Press.

I am concerned that responses to the curriculum, particularly by white people, will lead to a
dilution of the curriculum in a way that moves it away from the powerful and positive impact
it can have on students. Research on the impact of ethnic studies is quite clear: of the studies
assessing its academic impact, the great majority find a positive impact on the achievement
of students of color. In addition, the great majority find a positive impact on the racial
attitudes of diverse student groups that include white students.

Having spent decades as a national leader in multicultural education, I can see why this is the
case. Although textbooks and other curricula now include contributions of and references to
people of color more now than they used to, the overall way of looking at the world is still
generally through a white point of view. This is particularly the case when taught by white
teachers, or by teachers who have not grappled with the impact of a white-centered education
on their own worldview. As students go through the K-12 system, research on students’
perspectives finds students of color increasingly distrusting or simply not relating to what
they are being taught in school. Unfortunately, this whitening of perspectives has shaped a lot
of what multicultural education has become in K-12 schools. National leaders in
multicultural education such as James Banks and Geneva Gay do not water down its meaning
or implications, but how their work is taken up in classroomis-routinely does so; we.catinot
afford for that to. happen with ethnic studies:

The ethnic studies:modei curriculum as writien centers. the perspectives and experiences of
communities marginalized on the basis of race, and the ancesiral knowledge of peoples who
are not of European descent. To.achieve the positive impact on students that research finds
ethnic studies capable of effecting, that centering must remain. It is of value for white
students to engage in such a curriculum, but white perspectives cannot dilute its focuson
peoples-of color. Being white myself, this is something I have spent my professional life
grappling with. I stand ready to help Californians figure out how to help white people
navigate ethnics studies, but not if the curriculum itself moves away from centering Black,
Latinx, Indigenous, Asian.American, and Arab American experiences and perspectives.

I firmly hope that you will support the work of the ethnic studies curriculum writers and
advisory committee. They have done an outstanding job of showing us what a model.ethnic
studies curriculum looks like. Units can certainly be added to it, but not in.a way that
undermines it.

Sincerely,

Christine Sleeter
Professor Emerita
