From: Victoria Wong  
Sent: Thursday, September 19, 2019 1:48 PM 
To: Tony Thurmond; ldarlinghammond@cde.ca.gov; schao@cde.ca.gov; gavin.newsom@gov.ca.gov; 
governor@governor.ca.gov 
Cc: SBE; IQC; Karen Stapf Walters; Stephanie Gregson; assemblymember.weber@assembly.ca.gov; 
assemblymember.gonzalez@assembly.ca.gov; assemblymember.chiu@assembly.ca.gov; 
senator.levya@senate.ca.gov; jamie.callahan@gov.ca.gov; Ethnic Studies; 
savecaethnicstudies@gmail.com 
Subject: Support Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) Draft & Respect CA Communities Who Have 
Worked Towards It for Over 50+ Years 

September 18, 2019 

To:   The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction  
        Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Education 
        Soomin Chao, Chair of the California Instructional Quality Commission 
        The Honorable Gavin Newsom, Governor of the State of California 

Cc:  The California State Board of Education  
        The California Instructional Quality Commission 
        Jamie Callahan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Governor  
        Karen Stapf Walters, Executive Director of the California State Board of Education 
        Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction, Performance, Planning   
        & Technology Branch                
        California Senator Connie M. Leyva, Chair of the Senate Standing Committee on Education 
        California Assemblymember Shirley Weber, Chair of the State Assembly Select Committee       
        on Campus Climate, and of the CA Legislative Black Caucus 
        California Assemblymember Lorena Gonzalez, Chair of the CA Legislative Latino Caucus  
        California Assemblymember David Chiu, Chair of the CA Legislative Asian American Caucus  
        The ESMC Project at the California Department of Education - Public Comments   
        The Save California Ethnic Studies Coalition  

RE:  Support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) Draft and Respect Our Communities of Color 
Struggles for Educational Representation and Social Justice  

My name is Vicci Wong and I was a founder of the Asian American Political Alliance (AAPA), which gave 
birth to the Asian American Movement in May 1968.  AAPA originated and popularized the term and 
concept of Asian American, which today is universally recognized and used. Yet this historical fact is 
completely missing in most, if not all, public school texts and teaching.  It’s shocking most Americans, 
especially Asian Americans, do not know this significant fact; and a glaring example of why we need an 
authentic Ethnic Studies. 

AAPA co-founded the Third World Liberation Front (TWLF) at UC Berkeley that led the Third World Strike 
in 1968.  With SF State’s TWLF strikers, we both gave birth to Ethnic Studies as not only an academic 
discipline but a much needed community voice to enable all our students to widen their horizons, evolve 
their humanity and become problem-solvers not only in the workplace but in our endangered 
communities, country and the world.   

Today students of color are a 3/4-majority of CA’s public schools yet they continue to be shamefully mis- 
or under-represented in school curriculum. 

You can make the difference in which direction our state and the entire world declines or advances—
SAVE Ethnic Studies and our 3 Demands.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you for your time and attention,  
Vicci Wong 
Founding Member: Asian American Political Alliance (AAPA) 1968 
                               Third World Liberation Front UC Berkeley 1969 

*According to the CA Dept. of Education: https://www.cde.ca.gov/ds/sd/cb/ceffingertipfacts.asp 

 
 
