To :
The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction  
Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President of the California State Board of Education 
Soomin Chao, Chair of the California Instructional Quality Commission 
The Honorable Gavin Newsom, Governor of the State of California 

9/19/19  

People Organizing to Demand Environmental and Economic Rights (PODER) ’s vision is a 

society where everyday people can shape their neighborhoods and economies. We organize with Latino 
immigrant families in San Francisco, CA, along with other low-income communities of color, to cultivate 
community rooted solutions that create a society where immigrant rights, social, racial, economic, and 
environmental justice are central to the world in which we live. 

We are writing to express that ESMC is 

critical part of our vision to organize for communities 

that are environmentally and economically healthy. We urge you to do the right thing, and Save 
California Ethnic Studies, by prioritizing our broad coalition’s three demands:  

Save California Ethnic Studies - Our 3 Demands of the California Department of   Education, in 
regards to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) 

1. Keep the current ESMC draft, and with its defining focus on the histories and social justice 

struggles of communities of color—to remain as the core of the model curriculum, as the overall 
strong work it is within the context of Ethnic Studies. Within this, certain revisions may be made, 
which are part of the process by design. 

2. Maintain the curricular

 framework

 —including its disciplinary 

knowledge, understandings, 

language, and pedagogy—and do not dilute its 
it into non-equivalent fields, e.g., multicultural studies, diversity studies, or area studies.   

fidelity to the field of Ethnic Studies

 by converting 

3.

Improve accountability, transparency, and consensus-building with members of communities of 
color who are Ethnic Studies expert practitioners (particularly the ES-MCAC)—including when 
making recommendations for ESMC edits, revisions, and major CDE public statements related to 
Ethnic Studies—throughout the entire model curriculum process and up until its completion and 
ratification.  

Regards,  
Jacqueline Gutierrez, Youth Programs Coordinator 
People Organizing to Demand Environmental & Economic Rights (PODER) 
415-431-4210
​

www.podersf.org 
​
​

 
 
 
​
 
 
 
​
​
​
​
​
 
 
 
 
 
