 Board of Supervisors  

City and County of San Francisco 

MATT HANEY 
DISTRICT 6 

September 5, 2019 

California Department of Education  
1430 N. Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814 

Dear Honorable California State Superintendent Tony Thurmond and Board of Education 
President, Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond: 

I am writing to express my concern and disappointment regarding your recent decision to end the 
current effort to revise the existing draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC).    

As the former President of the San Francisco Board of Education I have led initiatives  
to better support students of color who have often felt marginalized, especially when critical 
decisions about their education are being made. After talking with students and their families 
they’ve expressed deep concerns to me about feeling unrepresented in the classroom curriculum.  
Their stories are missing in textbooks where the rich culture and history of their community is 
blatantly ignored.  It is incredibly vital that we support the ESMC so that all children understand 
that everyone’s history is equally important. 

The committee members, co-chairs and writers of the ESMC stand by their drafted document, 
but also understand that a principal value of this work is to incorporate feedback, be inclusive of 
discussion and viewpoints, and address things from a perspective of inclusivity. The narrative 
that the ESMC is anti-Semitic and/or an erasure of the Jewish experience in the United States is 
misguided and wrong. I ask that you reconsider your opposition to the established process and 
allow for revisions that align with the purpose of AB 2016 and respect the tremendous effort put 
into the 550+ page draft document by the 18 members of the committee, the co-chairs, three 
writers and support staff from the California Department of Education (CDE).  

As we commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the establishment of the field of Ethnic Studies, we 
emphasize that Ethnic Studies centers the experiences and viewpoints of people of color within, 
as well as beyond, the United States. San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD) is 
committed to honoring this long-standing mission. While Ethnic Studies acknowledges that 
Jewish, Armenian, Irish, Italian, and other European ethnic groups have undergone oppression 
and marginalization at various points in their history in the United States, it is critical that we 
examine how the role and function of “whiteness” has played in their assimilation into American 
society, while simultaneously excluding ethnic groups of color.  

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Board of Supervisors  

City and County of San Francisco 

Ethnic Studies was created to address the long-standing omissions and misrepresentations of the 
narratives of Native Americans, African Americans, Latinx and Asian Americans in the United 
States. Given the histories of these communities, it is imperative that these perspectives remain 
the central focus of the field.  

While there are tremendous challenges to the creation of a single resource that speaks to all 
communities of color in California, we urge you to protect the process and to allow for the draft 
to be completed. White supremacy has historically and continues to be prevalent in the United 
States, and throughout the world. Our children and youth must be equipped with the knowledge, 
skills and sensibilities to identify systems of oppression and then powerfully respond with 
solidarity in defense of democracy and humanity.  

Sincerely, 

Matt Haney 
Supervisor, District 6 
San Francisco Board of Supervisors 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
