To whom it.may concern,

The Department of Education California is creating a new ethnic:studies curriculum.

1 have taken the time to look into the .suggesied curriculum.

There are many points within this curriculum that need to be closely examined and addressed.

First of all, the curriculum does not recognize Jews:as.a minority in the US. Furthermore, it cails for
boycotting !srael {in 3 different classes), attempts to explain the conflict in the Middle East-using a single-
sided story; encourages aggression against Israelis, and spreads hate against Israelis and Jews.

The section called "Sample Course Models” includes false representation of history that is biased against
Israel, under the section “THE HISTORY OF ARAB IMMIGRATION TO THE UNITED.STATES.* The
curriculum.also spreads falsehoods under the following topics in the section “Arab American Studies
Course Outline”:

1. Direct Action. Front for Palestine and Black Lives: Matter.

2. Call to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction Israel.

3. Comparative Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico.

As a Jewish immigrant from Israel, | find this extremely disturbing and alarming. Finding such anti-semitic.
statements being suggested for a. forma! school curriculum brings me back to the stories | -heard about
the.siate of mind in Germany, prior to the second world war.

| would be terrified to-send my kids to school here knowing that their fellow students were being taught
that Israelis or Jews (or African American, Latinos, Muslims or any other ethnic group) should be
boycotted and suppressed.

So far, we have'seen over 240 mass. shootings this year in the United States, almostiall of them directed
towards minorities, and some of them directed towards Israelis and-Jews, Sucha curriculum can form the
next shooter who learns about Jews/Israel in a negative context.

A program for ethnic studies:should be promoting ethnic acceptance and not divergence. The last thing
we need in California, and the US in general, is more hate.

There are over a million Jewish people living in California, including around 300,000 Israelis, who can be
directly affected by such a curriculum. This would. be the first step towards an-even easier path ta
propagating such topics to other curriculums throughout the United States and further escalating the anti-
semitism in existing ones.

[ urge you to please.take a-stand and actively fight to prevent this curriculum. from being accepted.

Thank You!
Shoham. Yam and Neomi Brunshteyn
2528 South Bascom Ave., Campbell
