From: William Cerruti  
Sent: Tuesday, August 20, 2019 7:29 PM 
To: Ethnic Studies  
Subject: Add Italian Americans in Ethnic curriculum 

FROM:  The California Italian American Task Force and The Italian 
Cultural Society of Sacramento 

TO:  Dept of Education/ Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

SUBJECT:  Adding Italian Americans To The Ethnic Studies Curriculum 

On behalf of the California Italian Italian American Task Force, a 
Statewide California Italian American Commission created by the 
California Legislature to represent the concerns of the Italian American 
population of California, we are requesting that the Italian American 
experience be added to the proposed ethnic studies curriculum. 

Italian Americans are a distinct and important ethnic group in California 
and in the United States. The contributions of Italian Americans to the 
development of California and the United States have been enormous 
yet are often and mostly unrecognized. California school children learn 
about the experiences of other ethnic groups in the school room but 
the Italian American experience is not included in their educational 
experience. As a result, California school children are uninformed about 
the significant role Italian Americans have played in their history. 
Instead, most Californians rely on prejudicial and negative images of 
Italian Americans as depicted in the media and in society in general. To 
overcome this historic prejudice against Italian Americans it is vital that 
their story be included in the California Ethnic Studies Curriculum. 

The story of California and the United States is incomplete without 
telling the Italian American story.  The Ethnic Studies Curriculum would 

 
 
 
 
 
 
be incomplete and discriminatory toward Italian Americans if they too 
are not included. 

On behalf of the Italian American community of California we are 
requesting that the new Ethnic Studies Curriculum, as proposed, be 
revised to include the Italian American collective ethnic experience. 

We are available to meet with the Department of Education to submit 
revisions to the proposed curriculum.  

William Cerruti, Chair, California Italian American Task Force, and, 

Executive director, Italian Cultural Society of Sacramento. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
