Dear California Instructional Quality Commission and State Board of Education Members,  

The curricular integrity of Ethnic Studies must be kept, or it will fail at producing the 
transformative results it is capable of – we cannot do that to our students.  

There is a spectrum of feelings about what is happening now, after receiving the recent August 
12th through 15th, SBE, and State Superintendent / Senatorial updates. Ethnic Studies deserves 
to be honored as the field it is, and our students deserve to be honored as the young intellectuals 
they are, across California. Ethnic Studies has worked at producing the transformative results it 
has within this prevalent "achievement gap / opportunity gap / education debt" that our students 
inhabit. You see, Ethnic Studies is a very intentional and effective way of being honest about 
what Gloria Ladson-Billings frames as the four dimensions of this education debt in her 
Presidential Address to the American Educational Research Association (2006) – please read if 
you are unfamiliar with it. Further, to compound this debt for students of color, and their 
experience in an extremely biased K-12 curriculum is what Christine Sleeter called 
"Standardizing Imperialism" (2004) - again please read for her evidence based on the current CA 
State Standards if you are unfamiliar with this research. Though both of the articles just noted 
originated from outside the field of Ethnic Studies, they are imperative in considering the next 
stages of the work you are charged with; Christine's National Education Association report on 
the Social and Academic Value of Ethnic Studies, after all, is the only research cited in the AB 
2016 legislation, signed into law by Governor Brown the year of its namesake. Further, Christine 
herself was supportive of the current model curriculum draft in her public comment to the CDE, 
including its Overview, stating "I am very enthusiastic about this overview, which offers a good 
deal of depth and thought. It connects the core of Ethnic Studies content with pedagogy, the 
purpose of Ethnic Studies, and why Ethnic Studies exists and is needed. Well done!". This is the 
author of the only literature cited in the legislation, let's please listen to her and the Ethnic 
Studies teacher and professor leaders selected from throughout California to serve on the ESMC 
advisory committee, out of approximately 130 applicants, and with centuries of collective 
classroom experience teaching Ethnic Studies. Please.  

Those two articles, already are considered in the draft Ethnic Studies model curriculum, and the 
counternarratives to this K-12 standardized bias are integral to Ethnic Studies. The 2016 HSS-
FW even states the importance of counternarratives in Ethnic Studies in Chapter 14; I was there 
at the SBE ratification of it, and am thankful to the over 50 Ethnic Studies supporters who spoke 
that day, when we submitted a petition of over 1,000 signatures for additional critical concepts of 
Ethnic Studies to be included in the HSS-FW (attached; however, because we were so late in the 
process, and because of the intense India/South Asia controversy and all the resources it 
necessitated - no revisions were made that day when it was ratified. This time around, 
fortunately, Ethnic Studies communities are much earlier in the process (though given, were 
taken aback by the attacks of the last couple weeks) – and many more are ecstatic about 
representing for Ethnic Studies this time around).  

There are several ways of how to accomplish this curricular integrity in Ethnic Studies, and after 
the recent SBE and State Superintendent updates, I will reflect, discuss with various 
communities, and bring my prepared recommendations to your September meeting, if not share 
them before.  

 
 
 
 
Ethnic Studies has demonstrated results for both students of color and students of all 
races/ethnicities in the programs, as it moves forward, we must give it a chance to keep its 
curricular integrity, or it should not be called Ethnic Studies. 

I support the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Draft, also have several recommendations 
to improve upon it, and am possibly open to some redesign for the new October draft, depending 
upon the direction that redesign may take.  

R. Tolteka Cuauhtin, M.A. 
Interdisciplinary Educator, Scholar, Organizer 
California Teachers Association / Stanford Instructional Leadership Corps 
Pukúu Cultural Community Services, Board of Directors, Education Committee Chair 
United Teachers Los Angeles' Ethnic Studies Teacher Representative 
tolteka@gmail.com 
818-303-5435 
New Book: Rethinking Ethnic Studies, at RethinkingSchools.com 
New Article: Ethnic Studies Onward, in United Teacher, May 2019, pgs. 8;19 

 
 
 
 
