Congress of the United States
House 6 Teepwresentatives
Anna G. Esko Washington, DEC. 20575
Bightenth District
Calfornia

August 15, 2019

Ms. Soomin Chao, Chair
Instructional Quality Commission
California Department of Education
1430 N Street, Suite 3207
Sacramento, California 95814

To Chairwoman Chao,

| write to express my serious concerns about the current draft of the Ethnic Studies

Model Curriculum (ESMC).

While | applaud California’s efforts to incorporate valuable ethnic studies in K-12
curriculums across the state, the ESMC draft fails to accurately reflect California’s
diverse communities or recognize anti-Semitism as a dangerous form of hatred and
discrimination in America. Important religious and ethnic communities in California
are omitted or scarcely mentioned throughout the ESMC, including Jews,
Armenians, Greeks, Hindus and Koreans. These communities have a rich and
important history in California and have been and continue to be subjected to
discrimination and harmful stereotypes. Excluding or minimizing the importance of
these groups is inconsistent with the goals of the ESMC.

While the ESMC identifies “forms of oppression, including, but not limited to, white
supremacy, race and racism, sexism, classism, homophobia, islamophobia,
transphobia, and xenophobia”, anti-Semitism is not specifically mentioned as a form
of oppression and the term only appears twice in the nearly 600 pages of the ESMC.
Anti-Semitism is a vile form of hate and the shootings at the Tree of Life Synagogue
and the Chabad of Poway are terrible reminders that this hatred still exists. The
Anti-Defamation League reported that there were 1,879 anti-Semitic incidents in the
U.S. just last year’. This is a dangerous trend of behavior and expression that must be
taken seriously.

* California. Department of Education. Draft 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Chapter 1:
Introduction and Overview. 2019. https //www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/cf/esmcpubliccomment.asp.

> Anti-Defamation League Center on Extremism. “Audit of Anti-Semitic Incidents: Year in Review
2018.” https://www.ad|.org/media/13144/download.
| urge the Commission to revise the ESMC to better represent California’s diverse
ethnic and religious communities and identify the growing prevalence of anti-
Semitism before presenting any final curriculum to the State Board of Education.

J thank you in advance for your cooperation and attention to this critical matter, and |
look forward to your timely response.

Most gratefully,

Anna G. Eshoo
Member of Congress

[efor The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
California Department of Education
Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, President, California State Board of Education
Ms. Stephanie Gregson, Executive Director, Instructional Quality
Commission
