Public Input–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California Department of Education and 
Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a 
Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov 
with any questions regarding this template or the public input process.  

Shula Gossard, CA teacher 

Glossary 

history vs. hxrstory - pg. 8 

The revision of the word history makes our students less knowledgeable and 
educated. 

“The “his” in history has nothing, linguistically, to do with the pronoun referring to a 
male person. And some critics pointed that out back in the 1970s, saying that the 
invention of herstory showed ignorance about where the word comes from.” (Katie 
Steinmetz,This Is Where the Word 'History' Comes From, Time Magazine, 2017) 

The word history’s root, traced in the latin and then into the greek, is ἱστορία 
(historia) which means “inquiry, knowledge”. In fact, the word histora, historiae is 
actually a feminine 1st declension noun.  

It is poor teaching to make a word bereft of it’s deeper meaning because we see a 
combination of three letters that make a masculine english pronoun. Meaning isn’t 
gained, it is lost. 

Should histamine, histiocytosis, and histocompatibility, derived from the word ἱστός 
(histos) meaning “web, tissue”, also be changed to be more inclusive? 

Similarly, words such as heritage, latin root “her” from haerere (to cling), excludes 
other gender identities when the greater meaning is lost if again three letters of the 
english pronoun trumps the true root word meaning. Other words that could be 
offensive could be heretic because of the trope of the female witch/healer. Other 
problematic words might be herdsman, hermitage, herpes, heredity, etc. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glossary 

Glossary 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 

A number of glossary terms could be considered to adopt the gender neutral 
endings a/o/x in order to avoid exclusion. 

Asian (fem. asia); Islander (fem. isla), Indian (fem. india), Native American (fem. 
america),  

Pow  wow- pg. 13 
This term should be one word, powwow.   

“Powwow is one word, not two.  If you are writing or printing it as pow wow, it is 
incorrect. Check the dictionary, specifically Merriam Webster’s Collegiate 
Dictionary. You will find that the word is divided into two syllables with a dot 
between the syllables - not a space or a dash - signifying two syllables and an 
undivided word. The English spelling is derived from the word pauwau, from the 
Massachuset or powwaw from the Narrangansett, neither of which have a space 
between the syllables. If you look up the word in the dictionary, while there check 
the combination of words a few entries above powwow, and you will find follow up, 
with a space between the two words. Note the difference.” 

Agent, Dan. “Powwow or Pow Wow: Writing Tips from the Editor's Desk.” Cherokee 
Phoenix, 2004, www.cherokeephoenix.org/Article/index/509. 

“Powwow.” Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/powwow. 

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
