Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
[Enter the 
Chapter 
Number here, 
or just 
“General” for a 
comment that 
applies to the 
entire 
document.] 
1 

1 

Your Name and Affiliation 
ARNOLD GREGG 
CITIZEN TAXPAYER 
ARNOLD GREGG 

CITIZEN TAXPAYER 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

[Include the page and line number(s) here–Write your comment here] 

It appears there was an arbitrary deadline of Aug. 15th for submissions.  Since 
the e-dog ate my original copy, I am sending this ASAP and ask for the 
humanistic understanding and compassion of the authors in taking my 
submission into consideration. 

English translation please, this is meaningless edu-speak - “It is from communities 
of color and our intergenerational worldviews, memories Further, it is the xdisciplinary, loving, 
and critical praxis of holistic humanity – as educational and racial justice., experiences, 
identities, narratives, and voices. It is the study of intersectional and ancestral roots, coloniality, 
hegemony, and a dignified world where many worlds fit, for present and future generations. “    

Purer gibberish - Ethnic Studies also examines borders, borderlands, mixtures, hybridities, 
nepantlas, double consciousness, and reconfigured articulations, even within and beyond the 
various names and categories associated with our identities. 

 
 
      
 
Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
1 

Your Name and Affiliation 
ARNOLD GREGG 
CITIZEN TAXPAYER 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

The sole purpose of this program appears to be the deconstruction of our society 

through race baiting, class warfare, history revisionism, and the promotion of 

socialist economic dogma.  I can see how this is possible with teachers being 

awarded credentials without the requirement of ever having to take college level 

economics courses.  Your statements of  “Ethnic Studies courses, teaching, and learning 

will  4. “critique empire and its relationship to white supremacy, racism, patriarchy, 

cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, ableism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of power and 

oppression at the intersections of our society;”   clearly demonstrate the re-educational 

propagandistic agenda of the proposed curriculum.  This is a complete waste of 

valuable teaching resources and taxpayer funds. 

Frankly, I couldn’t get beyond Chapter 1 of your proposal because of it’s 
incomprehensible language and lack of a clear mission statement.  The bottom 
line is, this should be scrapped and an objective needs assessment be made 
before embarking on anything resembling an ethnic studies program is again 
attempted.   

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
