Aug. 12, 2019

To: 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Advisory Committee

California Department of Education

1430.N Street

Sacramento, CA 95814-5901

Re: Concerns for Safety following 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Advisory Committee Members,

I'm writing to you as a CA resident and a very worried mom.

Lrecently became aware of the changes The Department of Education California is making
in anew ethnic studies curriculum.

[highly appreciate the opportunity to give feedback on it, thank'you for that!

My concern is, as an Israeli immigrant parent, that if these changes will be approved, my
child wili study in an.-unsafe environment. There are various parts in the curriculum that
are very anti-Israel, one-sided, biased, and also do not mention Jews being a minority.

My concern relates to’ 3 different modules, including module 5140 - Direct Action Front for
Palestine and Black Lives matter; 5141 - Call to Boycott, Divest, and Sanction Israel calls for
boycotting Israel, and module 5142 - Comparative Border Studies: Palestine and Mexico),
that attempt to explain the conflict in the Middle East using a single-sided story, encourage
aggression against Israelis, and spread hate-against Israelis and Jews.

We had over +200 mass.shootings this year, Almost all-of them directed towards minorities
and many of them - directed towards Israelis and Jews. I would not be able to sleep at night
if 1 ever hear that the next shooter learned that “Jews are bad" in these classes’- I hope you
wouldn't either.

I will be terrified to send my-kids to schoo] knowing that their fellow students are taught
that Israelis, Jews (or African American or Latinos or-Muslims) - are’bad and we should
boycott them.

My concern is that-instead of promoting respect, diversity and iticlusion, this curriculum
will spread ignorance, hate, fear and increased violence. The last thing we need in
California and the US in general -is more hate.

There are 1.2 Million Jews living in California and.can be directly affected if we spread hate
against them. My child will have a much higher chance to get bullied, or even get killed just
because he is Jewish.

Please help amending this.

Sincerely,
Michal Guelfand
Livermore, CA

Michal. guelfand@gmail.com

