Dear California Educators and Legislators ---  

We have just learned of the proposed Ethnic Studies Curriculum that is proposed to be taught in 
California elementary schools. We understand that this class teaches that Capitalism equates to Racism, 
is anti-Free Market, and embraces the BDS (Boycott-Divestment-Sanction) movement, which is clearly 
anti-Semetic, and should be fiercely disavowed by all Americans. We further understand that this course 
encourages the reading of the biographies of, and praises political terrorists and anti-police attitudes, 
including praising a convicted cop-killer who now resides in Cuba, after escaping the California prison 
where she was held for murder. This is intolerable, and is an anathema to all thinking Americans of all 
ethnic backgrounds and origins.  

I studied Economics and got my degree from Cal State Northridge in 1973----Back then, we KNEW THAT 
CAPITALISM WAS THE ENGINE OF PROGRESS, not the Socialist Drivel that you now proposed. 

As a native son of California, I am appalled that the State Legislature would even consider such a 
radically anti-American, anti-Capitalism, and anti-Jewish position. It is my sincere hope that every 
Californian, and indeed, every American, voices their extreme objection and disappointment to this 
proposed teaching, and encourage the State of California to desist from re-writing history, and stick to the 
principals that made America the number one Economic Powerhouse of the World today. Isn't California 
the 3rd-leading economy in the World? WHY DO YOU WANT TO DESTROY IT?????? Capitalism is the 
ENGINE of ECONOMIC GROWTH, and we insist that our children and grandchildren be taught the 
TRUTH, not political nonsense.  

If you believe that AMERICA is so evil and needs to be radically changed, then please explain why so 
many millions of people from all over the world will do almost anything to immigrate here, including 
breaking OUR LAWS to do so? 

WE OBJECT AND CONDEMN the new Ethnic Studies Curriculum, and wanted you to know. I sincerely 
hope that all of my extended Family and Friends, most of whom are small (or large) business owners who 
have thrived through our Capitalistic System, will join me in condemning this proposed curriculum. 

Sincerely, 

Steve Janicek 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
