To the Quality Commission of the California Board of Education and Superintendent Thurmond, 

I am a parent in California. I am writing regarding the proposed Ethnic Studies Model 
Curriculum (ESMC). 

I have reviewed the ESMC online and am appalled by it. I find it bigoted, unbalanced, and 
plainly anti-Semitic, with the clear intention of demonizing the Jewish people and the State 
of Israel. There is no place for such a curriculum in our public education system.  

There are numerous issues with ESMC, but for brevity I will only highlight a few: 

1. Including the BDS movement as a purportedly legitimate organization (with no balancing 
view) shows the true intent of ESMC -- to demonize Israel. BDS has been declared racist and has 
one goal in mind, to end the Jewish existence in Israel. Our Congress has also found BDS to be 
anti-Semitic, a fact that seems lost on the authors of ESMC. 

2. ESMC does not mention anti-Semitism as a hate crime or discrimination. Any clear-eyed 
reading of history or our world today shows that anti-Semitism continues to be a problem (for 
example shootings at synagogues in the US). For this to be excluded from ESMC is indicative of 
anti-Jewish agenda. 

3. ESMC neglects that Israel is the historical and ancestral homeland of the Jewish people. This 
is very much like the Native Americans have America as their native homeland. Instead, ESMC 
does a "comparison" between "Palestine and Mexico" -- a completely false comparison because 
there is nothing to compare between the two. The reason ESMC does this is because it seeks to 
polarize students, especially Hispanic students in California, to hate Jews and Israel and believe 
that the Palestinians are somehow more like them than Israelis are. The truth is the opposite -- 
many Israelis are like first generation Hispanics in California, with parents who fled (or 
who by themselves fled) violence and hatred in their birth homes to seek a better life in 
Israel. 

I urge you to reject this curriculum and rewrite it together with more members of the 
community who will provide a more balanced view of Jews and Israel. 

Sincerely, 
Orna Morad 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
