Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
May 2019 Draft 
(Download and use to provide specific recommendations) 

Include the chapter of the model curriculum, the page number, and line number(s) to ensure that the California 
Department of Education and Instructional Quality Commission can reference the content of the document when 
reviewing your comments. Please email this document as a Word document to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov. You may 
contact Kenneth McDonald, Education Programs Consultant, at kmcdonal@cde.ca.gov with any questions regarding this 
template or the public input process.  

Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 

[Chapter 4 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Bruce Wendler, author and 
California resident 

General items with specific example:  There needs to be more references, 
Like on line 161 where references to the Bible in Genesis was the basis of 
western culture and some reference to eastern culture’s legacy as well.  
Psychology references for more open expressions.  Definition basis like 
line 171 has a basis. It gives more credibility to “Hate crime” and its usage. 
Other definitions are circular, like line 82 Critical race theories is a 
collection of critical framework… ask yourself is it a process you are trying 
to define; an attitude; a state; a baseline; etc.  And how does one measure 
any claims in this with a claim of better understanding. The list is full of 
short definitions that need more material.  Just look at dehumanization it is 
so general that one could argue this ethics model dehumanizes a large 
number of groups, like Catholics, Protestants, Pro-Lifers, Constitutionalist, 
and more groups like police officer associations (after all prisoners are 
being deprived of a lot of basic rights). So the definition doesn’t even 
address dignity in any way, the dignity of human life is a critical 
cornerstone in checking hate crime. And it is definitions like this that 
enables mass murderers. 

 
Chapter of 
Model 
Curriculum 
General 

Public Input Template–2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum 
Page 2 of 2 

Your Name and Affiliation 

Comment (include page and line numbers where applicable) 

Bruce Wendler, author and 
California resident 

The overall tone seems to push, if I may use the term Nepantla more broadly 
that the definition in Chapter 4 as in-between space where transformation can 
occur in” Ethics” but philosophically this results in situational ethics that just 
reduces to ethnic barbarianism. Kill a newborn if the mother wants to not keep 
the “thing” that came out. This is program is way too biased for ideological 
suppressions. It sounds like a manifesto of people that wants to change the 
world rather than help our society get along and be reasonable. As Immanuel 
Kant wrote in practical reason, it is trying to make things incompatible with a 
universal law’s basis. Situational ethics is like that in the name of tolerance. But 
nothing is done for the root cause of dehumanization, bitter jealousy and selfish 
ambition. In Chapter 2 ambition is at least hinted at in lines 1853 and 1883.  But 
no moral ethics seem to go with these again pushing situational ethics. As 
James 3:16 points out For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there is 
disorder and every evil thing. Your game plan has no anchor and it seems like a 
lot of hard work went into this project. Help Californians with some real moral 
ethics that go beyond the standard harassment packages.  

California Department of Education, June 2019 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
