1/22/2021 Tony Thurmond State Superintendent, CA Department of Education 1430 N Street, Sacramento, California 95814
Re: Wellstone Democratic Club Opposition to Current Revisions of CA ESMC
Dear Superintendent Thurmond and IQC members,
Sent to you yesterday was a letter written in opposition to the current version of the California Ethnic Model Curriculum (ESMC). The letter was written on behalf of the Wellstone Democratic Renewal Club. I am a Jewish member of this Democratic club, and wish to submit an independent opinion.
I find well-advised your removal from the current version of endorsement of the "Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions" (BDS) movement in opposition to Israel. While agreeing with BDS advocates about the inhumanity of Israeli policies that have trampled on the human rights of Palestinians, the demands made by BDS are unlikely to advance the cause of justice and peace for either Palestinians or Israelis. I cite here the perspective of JStreet, a progressive Jewish organization based in the United States. Quoting from their policy statement on this matter:
J Street advocates for a two-state solution and a secure, Jewish and democratic future for Israel. The Global BDS Movement does not support the two-state solution, recognize the right of the Jewish people to a state or distinguish between opposition to the existence of Israel itself and opposition to the occupation of the territory beyond the Green Line. Further, some of the Movement's supporters and leaders have trafficked in unacceptable anti-Semitic rhetoric. The Movement is not a friend to Israel, nor does its agenda, in our opinion, advance the long-term interests of either the Israeli or Palestinian people.
Although many of us disagree with the demands made by BDS, which call into question the right of Israel to exist, we do not believe that BDS should be banned or criminalized. Better to engage in conversation and debate those views in public. Those views should not, however, be given a seal of approval in the Calif. model curriculum.
Thank you for considering my comments above.
Raymond Barglow 1138 Keith Ave. Berkeley, CA 94708

