From: Jeffrey Horn Sent: Friday, January 22, 2021 7:24 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Please remove all references to Jews or Judaism in your planned curriculum.
Thank you for the opportunity to review the ESMC. I am not an expert in any way on the infinite number of ethnicities and intersectionality categories that the curriculum purports to represent, but I'm Jewish and from a family that suffered at the hands of Nazis in Germany. By the way, they were under today's definitions, white.
My parents immigrated here as penniless, English-less refugees. Despite the fact that they faced some cases of anti-semitism, it wasn't and hasn't been state sponsored. Needless to say, they were overjoyed with the opportunities and protections offered by our country and people in general. They worked hard, honestly at low pay jobs typical of all immigrants with limited education. Despite that, they never considered themselves victims, despite the ongoing challenges in the U.S.
I recommend that our lawmakers continue to be wary of approving any state backed racism against any group, ethnicity or affiliation. It would be best to educate children on what they can do to support those efforts, but without naming (inaccurately) and highlighting every possible division between them and their neighbors.
I can't speak for the other groups on whom the ESMC purportedly educates, but I can categorically say that it is inaccurate on most accounts regarding Jews and Jewish history. I mean to say, egregiously wrong to the extent of being anti-Semitic. I'm hoping that wasn't your goal, but it seems to be your achievement.
I would suggest strongly just removing the entire section regarding Jewish ethnicity and AntiSemitism section. It's mostly inaccurate, and that can be easily proven.
Assuming that the much if not all of the ESMC is as equally based on false premises, assumptions and assignations as it is for the Anti-Semitism section, I'd recommend not implementing it and starting from a fresh perspective. For example, teach about the various civilization histories and how those civilizations came to America and overcame and continue to overcome their challenges in our imperfect country. And please, use more facts and a greater variety of data sources and fewer labels and definitions - each one of those leads to greater potential errors in the curriculum.
Thank you, Jeff Horn

