From: nathanall Sent: Friday, January 22, 2021 7:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] review of the ESMC
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed ESMC. I am concerned that the stated goal, to encourage general understanding of the varied contributions of different groups and to allow children to see themselves narrated in the histories taught in school, will neglect the core truth that the United States is a unique institution. The beginning of each lesson should emphasize that. The idea that America as the Land of Opportunity reflects a "dominant narrative" which is a falsehood negates the reasons millions have come here and that millions have stayed. It diminishes the choices of all the people who have built and continue to build a community.
There is no other place in the world where I could contemplate something like the ESMC even being considered, a narrative that does not build to unity but emphasizes distress, separation, and marginalization. You are not teaching children that they are Californians first, Americans first. You are acknowledging that the identities you are projecting onto the children may not be identities they are aware of but you are defining them and boxing them.
If you teach the children sorrow and victimhood, if you tell them that there is a group of "white people" who have stolen land, enslaved others, and structured laws to oppress until the end of time and only the virtuous young can overcome this then you will have no civic virtue, no nation that can function.
As a practicing physician in South Los Angeles, as a woman, as a mother, I believe profoundly you have gone in the wrong direction. There is a difference between teaching history and assuming that people are defined by their history and this curriculum crosses that line. People are defined by their choices. I would caution you that there are "diversity training" groups which lead to worse interaction in the workplace. MIndful joyous discussion of achievements of all peoples in California is appropriate; a ritualized curriculum which stresses the frustrations and difficulties of various groups as if those difficulties were not the difficulties of all migrants at all times, the difficulties of all peoples who need to learn a new language and a new cultures, and the difficulties of all people who as adults find their options constrained by history is not a curriculum which serves the purpose of teaching children to be responsible adults. That, not encouraging grievances, should be the purpose of education.
Nathana Lurvey MD

