From: David Lipsky Sent: Thursday, January 28, 2021 4:44 PM To: Lisa Gerard Cc: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
I sent one too.
A friend linked me a story about the curriculum -- it was extremely surprising. The wildest thing, in a way, was how anti-educational it was. They called Pol Pot something like "influential." Pol Pot was thr hmer Rouge dictator responsible about a million deaths-- with rocks to the back of the skull when they ran short on bullets; so many people there's even a movie about the making of the movie (The Killing Fields) about his slaughter.
A double irony has to do with Pol Pot's execution criteria: the salient factor was, if a person was educated, they were killed. Sort of a candidate for instant anti-curricular inclusion, one would think.
Sent from my iPhone
On Jan 28, 2021, at 18:31, Lisa Gerard wrote:
To Whom It May Concern:
I am appalled by the proposed state Ethnic Studies curriculum. The idea that such an approach could produce better human beings is, to me, wholly irresponsible, wrong-headed, and absurd. What's promoted in your course models is divisiveness and further victimhood, at best. At worst, it actually encourages violence among students--verbal, physical, emotional.
My grandparents were Holocaust survivors. They lost their entire families, many members of which were brutally murdered before their eyes. They lost everything. The idea that, after an experience like this, they came to this country carrying privilege of any kind (except the "privilege" of survival, of having to live with memories of death and destruction running on a loop in their heads and hearts) is a heinous insult. To paint the Jewish experience as one entirely made of privilege, as being entirely in support of Israel on every point, is not only inaccurate, but also a perversion. And to voluntarily push a curriculum that says otherwise is shameful.
I am profoundly disturbed by the efforts of the ESMC, and sincerely hope that you will reevaluate any intent to adopt this dangerous curriculum.
Sincerely, Lisa Gerard

