From: Marina Gabel Sent: Saturday, January 30, 2021 7:53 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] My sons education
My son's schools is in the San Juan Unified School District Twin Lakes Elementary he's in fifth grade take me to his teacher at the time I have taken him out of that class and place them in another class decided to have the children play a game called gender stereotype. The teacher called it a vocabulary test and it was literally only available for 2 hours and I caught it. There were images from the 1950s of women and aprons and holding dusters and it just seems so backwards from what we've already accomplished as women. I really didn't understand what she was trying to teach my son. It wasn't a true or false format on top of it being time. So most of the parents didn't see it and the children could play it over and over again to try and get a higher score so they were basically taking in these vocabulary words supposedly that they don't even understand the concept of. I was very concerned I spoke to the principal the teacher the district the equity department head person. Nothing was done but I did get my son into a classroom with a teacher who does not teach this. I pursued it farther and turned in my proof to the teachers credentialing Association and they said the teacher did absolutely nothing wrong which is very concerning for me. There were other incidences where she showed a video about a handicapped man that he's a successful speaker but within the first few seconds of the video he's talking to high school students about how he wanted to commit suicide. The teacher is not realizing children that are not in school right now there are so many of them that have committed suicide from depression. I'm really concerned that nothing is being done and this person making these not very good decisions are exposing our children to things they don't need to be exposed to at age 10 in 5th grade.. The school is also starting sex Health classes I've opted my son out of it. Thank you for listening to my concerns I hope something oil change for our kids sakes. Please see attached. Thank you Marina Gabel

