From: Ruth Parker Sent: Wednesday, February 10, 2021 5:58 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Sabine S. and others share their thoughts on LinkedIn
Amen. If you don't know who Menachem Begin go to Wikipedia.. He was one of the leaders of the "new Jews" that Robert Kennedy discovered when he visited Palestine in 1948. Kennedy wrote during this visit that the Jews "have an undying spirit" and that "They will fight with unparalleled courage." Sirhan Sirhan, the Palestinian who murdered Kennedy in 1968, said Kennedy's longstanding support for Israel was the reason for his assasination.
----- Forwarded Message ----From: Ruth Sylvia Parker To: [email redacted] Sent: Wednesday, February 10, 2021, 03:08:50 PM PST Subject: FW: Sabine S. and others share their thoughts on LinkedIn

From: LinkedIn Sent: Wednesday, February 10, 2021 3:08:40 PM (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada) To: Ruth Sylvia Parker Subject: Sabine S. and others share their thoughts on LinkedIn

Ruth Parker

Your network highlights

Sabine S. Global Financial M&A Advisory/ Intermediary/ ...
Naftali Bennett You are so right, ashamed to live in the Hague Area, Ashamed to be Dutch... ICC is a farce. Thinking to start an action

Bennett to the ICC: Put my name at the top of your list View full post
San Francisco State University 238,733 followers If you haven't already heard, SF State is one of nine other CSU schools offering discounted courses to essential and frontline workers.

San Francisco State among several CSUs offering free, discounted classes for essential workers View full post
Riya Paul Enrollment Lead at DIGBI HEALTH
 ' -   . #happycustomer With the Digbi health...
Sweta J Corporate Wellness | Employee Health
 ' -   . #happycustomer With the Digbi...

Julie increased her energy and reversed digestive issues. View full post
Roy Cohavi   Legal Advisor, terrorism-related cases & lawsuits at... Donald Trump's Revolutionary Foreign Policy By Rauf Baker February 7, 2021 "Former US President Donald Trump's foreign policy legacy was, on the...

Donald Trump's Revolutionary Foreign Policy View full post

