From: Cornelius Moore Sent: Thursday, February 11, 2021 12:55 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Documentary film Agents of Change and its study guide for Ethnic Studies model curriculum consideration
Dear Instructional Quality Commission Members:
I would like to submit for model curriculum consideration for high school Ethnic Studies courses, the award-winning documentary Agents of Change along with its high school lesson plan. The non-profit organization California Newsreel is the distributor of the film.
Agents of Change chronicles how the field of Ethnic Studies grew out of college campus campaigns for equity and diversity in the late 1960s with then San Francisco State College (now University) at the center. San Francisco State students, their supporters on the faculty and in the community launched the longest student strike in U.S. history. In addition to curricular changes, they demanded increased minority student recruitment and retention, and the hiring of minority faculty. The campaign emerged victorious, creating the first College of Ethnic Studies in the nation and igniting similar actions across the country. The film provides essential background history to the significance and importance of Ethnic Studies.
For more information on the film, please visit
http://newsreel.org/video/AGENTS-OF-CHANGE
The Agents of Change Teacher Guide is a resource to help high school teachers make the best use of the film in the classroom. It contains an overview of the film, lesson overviews, and further resources to extend students' learning. The standards-based classroom lessons are designed to integrate Agents of Change into high school history and language arts curriculum. Each lesson contains the following components: title, purpose, content area, time, materials, steps, journal reflection prompts, and education standards. The education standards include The McRel Compendium of Academic Standards, The Common Core Standards, The National Core Arts Standards, and The Teaching Tolerance Social Justice Standards.
I have attached a link below to access the guide.
https://newsreel.org/guides/AgentsofCguide.htm
Maureen Carroll, Ph.D. is the developer of the guide. She has been a lecturer at Stanford University's Graduate School of Education and was the co-founder of Bay Breeze Educational Resources, a curriculum design firm that integrated content area learning with media, the arts and popular culture.
Thank you for your consideration. If you would like to receive a link to preview the documentary Agents of Change, please let me know. I will also be happy to provide any other information.
Best wishes,
Cornelius
Cornelius Moore California Newsreel [address redacted]

San Francisco CA

