From: Michael Kuehnert Sent: Tuesday, February 16, 2021 9:36 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] STARTING AT ZERO: Reimagining Education In America - equity in early childhood education - EDI film
Hi California DOE Ethnic Studies,
This is the second in our group of films that address equity, diversity and inclusion in K-12 schools.
STARTING AT ZERO: Reimagining Education In America is about equality in early childhood education.
Do you have time this week or next for a brief phone call? To discuss how your state could use the film and how many teachers/admin would be reached.
SYNOPSIS: Starting at Zero: Reimagining Education in America explores the power of investing in highquality early childhood education so that all children and families have the opportunity to attain the American Dream. Starting at Zero examines the latest developmental brain science to demonstrate how essential the earliest years of learning are to maximize human potential. Key features of high-quality early childhood learning environments and experiences are outlined and then brought to life as the film delves into the evolution of Alabama's #1 nationally ranked state Pre-K program. The film culminates with a call to governors across America for collective action: to set our nation on the path to future success through significant investments in high quality early childhood education, both to support today's workforce, and to build the workforce of tomorrow. The film brings together the voices of policymakers, educators, academics, business leaders, pediatricians, parents, and children. It features five current and past governors who are champions of early childhood education: Governors Steve Bullock of Montana, Kay Ivey of Alabama, and Ralph Northam of Virginia, as well as former Governors Jim Hunt of North Carolina, and Phil Bryant of Mississippi. At the heart of the film is the affirmation that if children are given the opportunity to thrive in settings with caring, responsive adults, fostered by an increased public investment in early childhood education, that the returns to our society will be deep and long-lasting.
REVIEWS: "A beautifully shot and compellingly argued case for expanding the definition of public education to include infants and toddlers...packed with insights and startlingly commonsensical remarks." -- Early Learning Nation
"A perfect film for 2020's push for racial equality, 'Starting at Zero' explores the power and societal impact of investing in high-quality early childhood education." -- Cleveland.com
Private Vimeo Link

(watermarked, for evaluation purposes only): https://vimeo.com/505369278 PW: EarlyEd
Thanks for your consideration,
Michael Kuehnert, Co-Director Video Project a 501(c)(3) Documentary Film Curator

