From: Marcelino, Angela Sent: Tuesday, February 23, 2021 11:45 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum--Support
State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814 Via email to ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
February 23, 2021
Re: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum--Support
Dear Board Members:
On behalf of the students and staff at Sacramento State, we express support for the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Our statements below exemplify the ways in which implementing this model curriculum can only enhance a student's social and emotional development:
1. Ethnic Studies is a study of all ethnicities. It teaches all children to respect each other's differences and cultural backgrounds, as well as includes everyone's experiences and histories into the American history literature. Ethnic Studies creates a multicultural view for the future generations by abolishing this stronghold of xenophobia in many western countries, which in turn provides a healthier world for everyone. Including Ethnic Studies at a young age can only benefit our educational industry and provide diverse knowledge to include various perspectives to enhance personal development and cultural competence for children at a young age. Doing so will set the positive intention to not perpetuate future segregation, racism, violence, patriarchy, classism, ageism, and any other form of prejudice towards one another.
2. Ethnic Studies allows for communities to be shown as equal apart from the typical eurocentric view. It changes the narrative to being more truthful, inclusive, and positively impactful for society. It is being taught history objectively and transparently. Teaching an efficient Ethnic Studies curriculum ensures that all students are represented in our history books, allowing us to understand the contributions of everyone to this nation, not just white history and some select features from other nations. The voices of everyone in America are yearning to be heard, and that's exactly what Ethnic Studies aims to accomplish.
Lastly and more significantly, the extant research finds that all students benefit academically and socially from taking ethnic studies courses. In 2019, students at California State University System increasingly reflect California's youth demographics (under 18) and minority populations: Latinx (54%), Black (8%), and Asian (13%). However, historically underrepresented populations have the lowest educational attainment obtaining a BA or higher

degree with only about 10 percent of Latinxs and 25 percent of African Americans doing so; as compared to 40 percent of European Americans and to 50 percent of Asian Americans. The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum can help improve student success rates, particularly for the most disadvantaged groups. We proudly support the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum and strongly encourage you to support. Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Winnie Tam Hung, Ph.D. Sacramento State Ethnic Studies
Angela Marcelino, English Major (BA) Serena Delgado-Legg, English Major (BA) Matthew Aquino, Health Science Major (BS) Kristeen Jardeleza, Studio Arts Major Julieta Segura Monique Cardenas Lavell Wright, Communications Major Cullen Michael Seludo, Health Science Major William Sin, Kinesiology Major Berenice Ledesma, Spanish Major Sunshine Lee, Social Studies and Ethnic Studies Major Kim Wu, Psychology Major (BA)/Behavioral Sciences (MA) Major Anika Cyra Aglubat, Psychology Major (BA) Cindy Y. Wong, Child Development (BA)Sacramento Future Cohort / Psychology (MA) Major Ruben Garcia, Kinesiology Major Kanyarat Sonthinen, Business Major Johnny Yang, Food and Nutrition/Dietetics Major Annalise Harlow, Sociology Major Nkautzer Vue Jordan Lee, Ethnic Studies Major Jerome Prudencio Jr., Ethnic Studies Major Carlos Aguila, Criminal Justice Major Angelika Mae Agbayani, English Major (BA) Lucky Vue, Sociology Major Laiba Khan, English Major Emiliano Guevara, Sociology Major Asia Lew-Douglas, History Major

