From: Dena Selix Sent: Wednesday, February 24, 2021 9:52 PM To: Ethnic Studies; SBE Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum & CASEL/Social Emotional Learning
February 24, 2021
California Department of Education ethnicstudies@cde.ca.gov
To the California Department of Education:
I'm a former San Francisco Unified High School Ethnic and American Literature teacher with a UCLA Masters in Education. I supplemented literature with primary sources to reveal America's true history, through lenses of ethnic discrimination and race.
If my diverse students were to be stereotypically categorized as the Critical Race Theory endorses, their authentic voices would be hindered. Too many assumptions/stereotypes are made using this politicized pedagogy. Plus it radicalizes students rather than influencing their desire to work collaboratively with other ethnic groups and races. ALL races and cultures are valuable to society through their contributions.
The ESMC must not indoctrinate and alienate ethnic groups.
Even CASEL's revised Transformative Social Emotional Learning uses a CRT framework. Students "learn to critically examine the root causes of inequity"; "upper-income White adolescents are encouraged to take responsibility for addressing social inequities" . . . while exhibiting "racial guilt". https://casel.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Transformative-Social-and-Emotional-Learning-SELToward-SEL-in-Service-of-Educational-Equity-and-Excellence.pdf (See p. 174, top of 2nd column)
This inhibits inclusive school communities and contradicts SEL's goal of "establishing a trusting environment and collaborative relationships." At the elementary level, counselors occasionally teach SEL's principles that promote a desire to learn; but this "transformative"/"critical"approach would most likely cause discomfort.
Also, teachers required to take CRT training (not just as Ethnic Studies teachers) will encounter its discriminatory age-inappropriate tenets and resources. Such organizations as the Pacific Education Group's Courageous Conversation uses the CRT pedagogy in a very uncomfortable teacher training which includes attempts to elicit "white privilege guilt". Teachers' valuable time

could be used much more effectively. It is offensive to me and others that districts assume their teachers are unaware of their own and their diverse students' identities. Many of us were trained to teach our students to relate their personal stories to academic content, thus acknowledging and sharing their differences.
Let's build bridges through shared struggles without the Oppressor vs. Oppressed and Us vs. Them ideology.
Ethnic Studies must result in acceptance, empathy and respect, especially for those perceived as different.
Please do not approve a critical race theory-based ethnic studies curriculum. There are an abundance of educators who can contribute to a more inclusive, meaningful alternative curriculum.
Thank you for your time,
Dena Selix
-As James Baldwin said, "Color is not a human or personal reality; it is a political reality."

