From: M.D. Block Sent: Thursday, February 4, 2021 1:59 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Bias and Misinformation in Proposed CA Ethnic Studies Curriculum
In a letter from StandWithUS. Dated 8-8-19, they have made the charge of "Bias and Misinformation in Proposed CA Ethnic Studies Curriculum" which characterizes its organization as an international, non-profit, Israel education organization supporting Israel and combating antisemitism around the globe. They take issue with sections of the curriculum which omit antisemitism as a form of bigotry and openly promote hateful boycotts against the Jewish State of Israel. The proposed curriculum includes no lessons about Jews as a sizable ethnic minority and as the American community most targeted by hate crimes based on religion.
This is long and I apologize, but I have attempted to point out how absurd the above charge by StandWithUs is. The charge of anti-Semitism is inimical to our First Amendment freedoms for which many brave people, including mine, excluding Jews, fought, sacrificed and died and is used to coerce favors and American tax dollars for Jews and Israel. America is not happy!
I believe that President Trump banned Muslims from the U.S. and personally targeted Muslims with lies and assaults, against one of whom is buried at Arlington National Cemetery who died fighting for America, something no Trump has ever done. Just an example that Muslims are targeted by hate crimes far more than Jews.
Some time ago,Andrew Adler, owner of 'Atlanta Jewish Times,' advocated for U.S. based Mossad agents to take out a president, Obama, deemed unfriendly to Israel in order for the current vice president, Joe Biden, to take his place, and forcefully dictate that the U.S. policy includes its helping the Jewish state obliterate its enemies. Yes, order a hit on a president in order to preserve Israel's existence.
Jews want to cancel Christmas in our Protestant schools, but insist that classes on the Holocaust be taught? Jews attempted to remove our crosses from Mt. Soledad, La Jolla, California and now Jews want to remove Christmas from our classrooms. What chutzpah!
http://atlantajewishtimes.timesofisrael.com/christmas-presence-haunts-kindergarte Classes
Americans and Palestinians did not murder Jews. So why do Americans and Palestinians have to suffer the consequence of the Holocaust. Hitler offered six million Jews to any country that would accept them - none obliged. Europeans killed Jews and were responsible for the Holocaust, not the Palestinians! European Jewish refugees went to Palestine, took homes and land that belong to the Palestinians making the Palestinians refugees. So Jews are to the Palestinians what Hitler was to them? Jew are no less evil? Jews owned 7% of Palestine at this time. The oppressed are now the oppressors!
If you teach about the Holocaust, you must teach about "Nakba" which means "catastrophe." Israel was established through a war of ethnic cleansing aimed at removing as many of the Muslim and Christian inhabitants as possible. The devastating humanitarian disaster is given almost no attention in American history books nor by the mainstream news media even though it is crucial in understanding the ongoing violence in Israel-Palestine and the Middle East in general. It is a central factor in the "Gaza Great March of Return.

An estimated 700,000 Palestinians fled or were expelled from their homelands by Israeli colonizers and have since become the largest refugee group. Many of the Palestinian refugees lived in Syria and enjoyed a long period of stability until the war broke out. They now have fled their new home. One Palestinian said they were exhausted from being homeless since the ethnic cleansing of Palestine in 1948 by Israel.
Among those who had Swiss bank accounts to avoid paying taxes in America were Holocaust survivors and children of Holocaust survivors. Does being a holocaust survivor or a child of a Holocaust survivor convey a right to cheat on taxes in a country that liberated Jews and gave them sanctuary?
Targeting BDS is inimical to our Democracy and our First Amendment freedoms which define America. The Presbyterian Church is the largest Christian denomination to divest from companies involved in the Israel occupation, making this vote a historic victory for justice and human rights. Princeton University was founded by Presbyterians in 1746. I am so proud of the Presbyterian Church, our Scottish religion, among others, Mennonite Church (USA), Methodist, United Church of Christ, Unitarian Universalists, Catholic Conference of Major Superiors of Men, the Alliance of Baptists and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America who have used their moral authority to stand up to the dysfunctional/welfare/terrorist state of Israel and to stop investing in companies that are complicit in Israel's vile, pernicious, evil, barbaric abuse of the Palestinian people.
I applaud that Tufts Students for Justice in Palestine won the 2020 Collaboration Award as part of the Office for Campus Life's annual student organization awards ceremony on April 22, 2020. It was well deserved! Of course, Jews are not happy!
AEN executive director Miriam Elman said that "Tufts-SJP is hardly a worthy recipient of an award for collaboration." Miriam Elman lived in Israel and served in the Israel Defense Force for over a decade.
I consider the IDF a terrorist group who are to the Palestinians what Hitler was to Jews.
StandWithUs co founder Roe Rothstein said the award was outrageous and should be rescinded. AMCHA director Tammi Rossman-Benjamin also expressed outrage.
Hillel and AEN attempt to intimidate those who promote justice for the Palestinians on our college campuses. Hillel should be banned from our university campuses.
Hillel, a Jewish organization that threatens those cowardly members of university faculty that don't pander to Jews. Hillel mission: Enriching the lives of Jewish students so that they may enrich the Jewish people and the world. Hillel vision: We envision a world where every student is inspired to make an enduring commitment to Jewish life, learning and Israel!
After forty years of Sackler Oxycontin money at Tufts, a Christian Institution of higher learning, Tufts, redesigned as a secular institution of higher learning, has become an enabler of the Sackler family's endeavor to eliminate Protestants and our Protestant Institutions of Higher Learning. THE FAMILY THAT BUILT AN EMPIRE OF PAIN" - THE SACKLER DYNASTY RUTHLESS MARKETING OF PAINKILLERS HAS GENERATED BILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND MILLIONS OF ADDICTS, by Patrick Radden Keefe reveals a Holocaust to which so many Americans have been subjected and eliminated.
Purdue Pharma produced the prescription painkiller OxyContin, responsible for an addiction epidemic that has led to the deaths of hundred of thousands of Americans over the past two decades. Massachusetts AG filed a complaint against Purdue and some members of the Sackler family which argued that Purdue

Pharma used its connections to Tufts to promote wider use of OxyContin. Gifts in good faith to Tufts by the insidious, murdering Sackler family should be distributed to the many families, including grandparents compelled to raise their grandchildren whose parents died from OxyContin overdose. Many families live in poverty as the OxyContin was promoted in rural Protestant areas and should be compensated with funds to make sure their grandchildren have a quality life. Tufts should be compelled to give all children of victims of the OxyContin Holocaust a free education.
Class of 2003 at Tufts who reported their religious affiliation - 24% identified as Catholic, 22% Jewish and 19% Protestant and 12% other religions. Jews constitute less than 2% of our population. Such a large percentage of Jews on Tufts campus?? Oxycontin Benjamins? Forty years of Sackler Oxycontin money at Tufts enabled the large enrollment of Jews on a Christian College Campus. They make billions from a drug, Oxycontin that kills Protestants then they take control of Protestant Institutions of Higher Learning? Hitler would be envious of the Sackler family. We Protestants for whom and by whom our Democracy and our many Institutions of Higher Learning
were designed are not happy with Jews who display such contempt!
(WP)The Justice Department cut a deal with the Sackler family, the billionaire owners of Purdue Pharma who are accused of causing much of the opioid epidemic through their illegal marketing of OxyContin. Selling opioids made the Sackler one of the richest families in the world, with a fortune reported at $13 billion beyond the value of Purdue. But the Justice Department decided to let the Sackler's pay $225 million and walk away.
Jews want the State Department to better address alleged rising anti-Semitism, while Americans want the Justice Department to address the 'OxyContin Holocaust' to which so many Americans have been subjected and eliminated while the Sackler Family made billions in their vile, evil, heinous endeavor! The Justice Department failed American families who were victims of the evil Jewish Sackler family and Purdue Pharma.
After the Oxycontin Holocaust to which the murdering, thieving Slacker family has subjected so many Americans, obviously it is the American citizens who need protection form Jews.
"Anti-Semitism" continues to rise at an alarming rate across the globe," Senator Jacky Rosen who led sponsorship of the bipartisan bill, said in a statement Wednesday after the vote, which passed unanimously. "To equip the State Department to better address rising anti-Semitism, it is critical that we elevate the role of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism to Ambassador-at-large," cosponsored by Senators Gillibrand and Rubio.
A broad array of Jewish groups backed the measure. With the status of ambassador, the envoy will have easier access to the secretary of state and increased funding. (Benjamins)
At this time of Covid-19 crisis in America, over 4,000 Americans dying a day, the Conference Of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations - 1-12-21 has the
chutzpah to request a meeting with President-elect-Biden to discuss IHRA, a definition of anti-Semitism that will diminish our First Amendment freedoms, which define America.
The American people watched in horror as Prime Monster Netanyahu was allowed to speak in our Hallowed Halls of Congress. The merchants of betrayal (paid agents for Israel serving in congress) were

applauding Prime Monster Netanyahu in our Hallowed Halls of Congress as he used information from spying on America to attempt to undermine President Obama and the P5+1 Iran Diplomacy! AIPAC SPENT $40 MILLION to buy votes in an attempt to undermine President Obama and the P5+1 Iran Diplomacy to make Netanyahu the architect of our foreign policy.
Congress just passed a bill to give Israel a minimum of $38 billion over the next ten years, despite current devastation to the US economy which passed by a voice vote without any discussion or debate of the largest such package in US history, and without identifying the title. This looting of American tax dollars will constitute $7,000 per minute for the dysfunctional/terrorist/welfare state of Israel.
Less than 2% of our population, Jews in America seem to believe they are entitled. One of the Neocons, Caroline Glick wrote," "Neoconservatives are messianists and American imperialism is their replacement theology. They view America as the Promised Land and Americans as the Chose People. From their perspective, the Torah was superseded by the Declaration of Independence. The Torah will not go forth from Zion, but from Washington, and the world will reach a redemptive state - what Jews refer to as "tikkum olam" not when the nations of the world accept God's reign, but when the American empire brings democracy to all corners of the globe."

