From: Ruth Parker Sent: Saturday, February 6, 2021 2:11 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Exclusive Infographic
I am old enough to remember when most Americans understood that Communism is the enemy of Liberty. Today I see Communist tactics being employed in every aspect of American life as if this was entirely morally correct from giving government the right to decide which are the favored groups and pitting the groups against each other for government favoritism to the suppression of free speech and on and on. I quote from a letter to editor in the latest issue of the J. "In '1984' George Orwell describes a dystopian totalitarian state in which 'every book has been rewritten, every picture has been repainted, every statue and street and building has been renamed." The objective was to completely control the lives of the population, for'who controls the past...controls the future; who controls the present controls the past." The Communists see Orwell's book not as a warning but as the playbook for their policy agenda.
----- Forwarded Message ----From: The Epoch Times To: [email redacted] Sent: Saturday, February 6, 2021, 12:51:25 PM PST Subject: Exclusive Infographic
EXCLUSIVE INFOGRAPHIC: China's 2020 Election Interference

For the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), the 2020 presidential election in the United States was always a life and death struggle. For the first time in decades, a U.S. administration had confronted the CCP's subversion and infiltration of the United States, curtailing its expanding global influence. The CCP made clear through its state-run media that it favored a presidency under Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden, because he would be "smoother" to deal with than President Donald Trump. Beijing interfered in the 2020 election in multiple ways, and the regime was able to do this because it has, for decades, studied our society and form of government. It has systematically exploited all weaknesses in our system.

