From: [email redacted] Sent: Saturday, February 6, 2021 12:12 PM To: [emails redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Input
Dear Ethnic Studies Advisory Committee,
As a public school teacher in Calif and former school board member, I think you would find this article of interest from a black lawyer, minister and educator from Los Angeles.
https://www.brenda4kids.com/our-media/articles/blm-targets-their-own-children-via-gender-confusionsterilization
https://www.google.com/amp/laprensahispananewspaper.com/blm-ataca-a-sus-propios-ninos-por-medio-de-la-confusion-degenero-y-esterilizacion/amp/
The article has also been translated in Korean, Chinese and Vietnamese and is being put out on many virtual platforms of varied lingual minority groups.
Besides the concern Rev Little expressed, there is an outrage that the CDE excluded all non-English speaking parents from the ESMC statewide input process. Immigrant community leaders requested the document in their mother tongue, but the CDE denied equitable access of the document and thus discriminated against nearly 30% of the California Population. If this is not supremist elitism, I don't know what is.
Secondly, in Ch 3 on page 6 of the ESMC, it states that the usage of LGBTQ+ throughout the document is inclusive and ever-changing spectrum of identities. LGBTQQIAA+++ represents expanding concepts that may fall under this umbrella term in the future.
Gaye, Theresa, and Tolteka, having an open ended acronym is like giving the state a signed blank check for our children. Who is to say Pedophilia or MAP (Minor Attracted Persons) will not be part of this future evolving umbrella term? This statement alludes to unlimited genders and unlimited sexual orientations.. no boundaries. Polymory (consensual non-monogamous relationships) is already being normalized in our K-12 Health Framework / Sex Curriculum and also by the APA (American Psychological Association) https://www.apadivisions.org/division-44/leadership/task-forces
Why would people of color want to associate an mutable attribute, such as gender fluidity and sexual fluidity, with an immutable attribute such as skin color or ethnicity? Fluidity denotes changeable. Isn't this an assault to the civil rights movement?
Critical Race Theory classifies gender nonconforming and sexual nonconforming identities as marginalized and oppressed. Could this classification socially incentivize students to identity with nonconforming gender fluid and sexual fluid identities? After all, who wants to be considered a mean oppressor? It states in Ch 3 of page 10 that students will become civically engaged to exercise their agency and identify institutional/ structural inequities to advocate for change. Does this mean students will be trained in school, through Ethnic Studies, to become political activists to pass laws that also financially incentivize their gender fluid and sexual fluid identities via affirmative action and reparations?
Thank you for taking the time to clarify, because it's becoming more and more apparent that people of color and our vulnerable immigrant populations are being used for another agenda as it relates to "social change". https://siecus.org/ (sex ed for social change)
Sincerely, Brenda Lebsack

www.Brenda4Kids.com

