From: Starchild Sent: Tuesday, February 9, 2021 1:24 AM To: Ruth Parker Cc: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Enemy From Within: Agents of Influence
Where? Perhaps in the Epoch Times, which has sadly developed a strongly pro-Trump bias (they used to be more even-handed in reporting on U.S. politics). One would have thought that when Trump reacted with congratulations to Xi Jinping getting himself appointed president for life, and said that this was something we might want to look into here, that it would have woken their editors up, but apparently not. Love & Liberty, ((( starchild )))
On Feb 6, 2021, at 12:42 PM, Ruth Parker wrote:
My question is where did these researchers find 5 positive news stories about Donald Trump to use in their experiment. Biased new coverage matters. Who would have guessed this? ----- Forwarded Message ----From: The Epoch Times To: "[email redacted] Sent: Saturday, February 6, 2021, 07:05:45 AM PST Subject: Enemy From Within: Agents of Influence
Have you ever wondered how skewed media coverage affects an election?

In a poll conducted by the Media Research Center (MRC), 1 in 6 Joe Biden voters surveyed said they would not have voted for Biden if they had known about one or more of eight news stories.
The eight stories used in the poll were about Biden or Donald Trump. Three of the topics were negative about Biden, including his son Hunter Biden's email scandal. Five of them were positive about Trump.
This indicates that people may not be getting important information that would help them decide which candidate best reflects their values. The MRC poll showed that 17% of Biden voters would have changed their vote--enough to change the outcome of the presidential election.
Suppressing information like this can lead Americans to make decisions that they don't actually agree with--the opposite of how a healthy democracy is supposed to work.
This is what we're looking to fix at The Epoch Times.
No matter how the times may change, we remain dedicated to making sure people have access to the information that will allow them to make decisions that best align with their values.

