From: [email redacted] on behalf of Laura McKay McKay [email redacted] Sent: Tuesday, February 9, 2021 2:18 AM To: Ethnic Studies[emails redacted]; Tony Thurmond Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove Critical Ethnic Studies Foundation from CA Ethnic Studies
BLACK HISTORY ATTACK: The California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum must not be allowed, sanctioned or disseminated in California's public schools. It glorifies black radicals and black racists in place of actual civil rights leaders; it is antisemitic and ignores the struggles and contributions of most ethnic groups. It only acknowledges blacks, Hispanic and native American minority ethnic status. Misleading, inaccurate, agenda driven propaganda. Contacts: Office of the State Superintendent of Schools, your local county and city superintendents, state and local elected officials. Please demand a citizen curriculum review commission be established comprised of peer nominated members of the citizenty: ethnic groups, religious faiths, local small businesses and service organizations. Our children deserve truthful and. factually sound instruction based on the pedagogy and best practices afforded a vital area of curricum. I speak with the authority of a Masters of Arts in Curriculum and Instruction, a Lifetime Credential in Leadership and Instruction, earned Ethnic Studies Credential Community College level, wrote and implemented ethnic studies and former consultant for textbook adoption and former Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum and Instruction. I share my credentials solely to magnify the urgency from a standard of accepted professional analysis. I am retired and not job hunting. Never imagined such blatant attempt at deception would get this far. We can't be silent! California Department of Education and State Board of Education,
I am writing to express concern about the Critical Ethnic Studies' (ES) polarizing foundation which still corrupts the ESMC - a curriculum that, rather than dividing, should build bridges among students and ethnic groups. I ask that you remove the Critical ES foundation from the Guiding Values and Principles AND the resulting lessons.
This includes:
1. Removing the indoctrinating Critical Ethnic Studies ideology from the Guiding Values and Principles.
2. Replacing the narrow Critical ES language and leading questions that assume a foregone conclusion, with broader constructive language that invites inquiry and analysis from multiple perspectives.
3. Removing content that promotes violence or victimhood, or demeans any ethnic group.
4. Replacing the narrow ideological lens that romanticizes any one-sided political, economic, militant, or separatist movement, with a balanced evaluation including both positive and negative sides of the movement or "ism."
5. Replacing the unvetted list of UC-approved courses in Appendix C with courses such as those of the Los Angeles Unified School District's (LAUSD), which are not based on a Critical ES

approach.
I add my voice to the requests from the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies. We all want a constructive Ethnic Studies curriculum, such as that of the LAUSD, which represents both contributions and struggles of ethnic groups and confronts racism, while building mutual understanding among all students and fostering balanced analysis.
Thank you for your work to date on improving the ESMC and for your thoughtful consideration of the above crucial revisions.
Respectfully, Laura McKay McKay Menifee

