From: Ruth Parker Sent: Monday, March 1, 2021 12:13 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: 'Liberated' ethnic studies | Nazi-made statue at St. Mary's | And more...
Jews are the indigenous people of the land of Israel whose land was stolen from them by a series of colonial settlers most recently the Arabs. These are the facts that the "liberated'' ethnic studies teachers wish to ignore so that they can claim it is the Arabs who are the oppressed indigenous people. Indigenous rights activist Ryan Bellarose is the most prominent but far from the only proponent of this reality. There are many other you can find by googling this subject. ----- Forwarded Message ----From: J. The Jewish News of Northern California To: [email redacted] Sent: Monday, March 1, 2021, 06:30:13 AM PST Subject: 'Liberated' ethnic studies | Nazi-made statue at St. Mary's | And more...
Statue by Nazi-era artist under review at St. Mary's College
BY GABRIEL GRESCHLER

St. Mary's College in Moraga has temporarily removed a statue on campus from a Nazi-era artist. Student petitioners want it gone for good.
READ MORE
`Liberated' ethnic studies group launches with help from original California curriculum drafters
BY GABE STUTMAN

California Jewish organizations are cautiously marking a win in the ethnic studies fight after lessons critical of Israel were cut. But a new consulting group formed by some of the curriculum's original drafters may complicate things.
READ MORE
Masks of all kinds: Scenes from a pandemic Purim across the world
BY JTA

It was an unusual Purim, to be sure. But Jews still managed to put on costumes and party. Here's what the holiday looked like around the Jewish world.
READ MORE
Early S.F. author Emma Wolf, `mother of American Jewish fiction,' gets a new reprint 120 years later
BY LIZ HARRIS

Emma Wolf published five novels along with many short stories and poems, and dared to tackle tricky topics such as antisemitism, individualism vs. religious norms and assimilation -- issues not typically explored by her peers at the turn of the 20th century.
READ MORE
Biden's first military action: Strike on Iranian-backed targets in Syria
BY RON KAMPEAS

President Joe Biden ordered an airstrike on Iranian-backed militias in Syria, his first military action. The strike was in retaliation for a Feb. 15 rocket attack on a U.S.-led base near Erbil, the capital of Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish region.
READ MORE
Our Crowd: Honors, comings & goings, philanthropy
BY DAVID A.M. WILENSKY

In case you miseed it: Erin Handelsman of Cupertino, who is among the first class of female Eagle Scouts, earned her rank by building benches at Congregation Beth David in Saratoga; JCC of Sonoma County director Ellen Blustein announces retirement; and more community news.
READ MORE

