From: Roberta Gold Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 3:57 PM To: Ethnic Studies; [emails redacted] Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] What must be changed in the curriculum
To those reviewing CDE recommendations for ESMC Draft 2:
It's obvious that much of the Ethnic Studies Curriculum is lifted directly from the principles and teachings of "Critical Race Theory" ("CRT").
At it's core, CRT is anti-Semitic in both proposed application and interpretation. It's tenets fly in the face of what it means to be a Jew in America and thus, discredits the indispensable contributions of American Jews, both past, and moving forward. This is so because CRT, (and likewise, the Ethnic Studies Curriculum) is rooted in the notion that any successes and contributions made by Jews (and other white minority groups, regardless of how persecuted they were throughout history), were largely possible because most members of those minority groups had "light skin". Accordingly, they were supposedly the beneficiaries of "white priviledge". The only way to correct this glaring flaw in the curriculum is to reject the curriculum's limited focus on the four groups of people "of color", and expand it to include ALL minority cultures, races, religions and ethnicities in the US. History clearly demonstrates that skin color is certainly not the universal determining factor as to which group is singled out for discrimination - the Jews are the perfect example! The US constitutional safeguard of "equal protection under the law" is the best protection against discrimination minority groups have ever had in the history of the world! The Ethnic Studies curriculum seeks to undermine the concept of "equality under the law" alleging that it is a mere "social construct calculated to legitimate white supremacy." The curriculum teaches the lie that the rule of law is a false promise. It teaches children that justice can not be blind and that the application of the rule of law is based on skin color. The way to fix this flaw in the curriculum for ALL minority groups, is to treat them all equally.
Roberta Gold Educator (30 years experience, 7 - 12)

