From: William Guynn Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 4:21 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Concerns about the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Second Draft
To the California Department of Education:
We are citizens of California, who are very long-term residents of Berkeley. Our adult children both attended public school in Berkeley. We have a 12-year old grandson, and we are concerned about what he is going to be exposed to and taught in school.
We are relieved that the Ethnic Studies curriculum is being carefully considered and that it is being revised. We believe that further revision of the second draft is called for.
First, we believe that the guiding values and principles are too narrow in their philosophy, suggest antagonistic relationships, and do not represent California's shared values. We are specifically concerned with anti-Israel narratives and the encouragement of solidarity with BDS. We urge that sections of the curriculum be revised so that diverse points of view are respected and students exposed to various sources of information.
To be specific, we are concerned about the Jewish students in California and the impact of the curriculum on them. We find that the few references to Jews in the curriculum are misleading and even offensive. Antisemitism is unfortunately on the rise, in this state and country and around the world. Please include in the curriculum a definition of antisemitism that addresses double standards and stereotyping. Please remove links to virulently antiIsrael pro-BDS sites, especially when they contain slanderous allegations of imaginary genocide. Please include reference to Mizrachi and other Jews of color. Mizrahi Jews and other Middle Eastern communities must be represented on an equal basis with Arab American communities, so that one community is not perceived as favored over another.
We hope you will consider our concerns and will give serious consideration to further revising the curriculum along the lines we suggest. Thank you for your attention.
Sincerely yours, Stefanie C Guynn William H Guynn

