CDE Note: This comment also included the attachment provided in the comment, "8-6-20 Group Attachment"
From: David Kafton Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 1:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: David Kafton Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC Members,
Greetings!
I am very happy the CDE is making changes to the ESMC.
I am a non-religious Jew and member of an ethnically mixed family including my wife and son who are African-Americans. We are very sensitive to and are opposed to all bigotry, including racism and anti-Semitism. We are simple people who judge others by the content of their character.
Bigots come in all sizes and shapes -- no ethnic group is exempt from them -- black, white, yellow, red, brown, green, yellow, .... So where do we go from here?
Yes, it is very important to know everyone's history. As a Jew I am reminded all the time of my ancestors' enslavement in Egypt thousands of years ago. I am reminded of the Holocaust and murder here today. Jews have been persecuted throughout the centuries to this day.
Freedom and democracy mean everything to me.
We are against all dictators no matter what their ethnicity. Take a look around the globe. There are white dictators, black dictators, Latino dictators, Christian dictators, Arab dictators, Asian dictators, Moslem dictators. THERE ARE NO JEWISH DICTATORS AND NO NATIVE AMERICAN DICTATORS.
THERE ARE SLAVES IN ARAB & MOSLEM COUNTRIES. THERE ARE NO SLAVES IN ISRAEL.
The proposed ESMC has been brought to my attention and I've read the official summaries.
My hackles are up because it appears this program has been hijacked by a Pro-Palestinian, antisemitic group of bigots that is hell bent on indoctrinating our youth in "racial" hatred against whites (whoever they are) and Jews including Israeli Jews starting in kindergarten! What are you doing in kindergarten? Show 5 year olds some photos: Here's a white person? He's bad. Here's a black person? He's good.

By the way, Jews come in all sizes, shapes, and colors. We are African-Americans, LatinoAmericans, Asian-Americans, Native-Americans, European-Americans, ???-Americans. Some Jews are very religious. Others are atheists. Some are bigots. Others are not. I consider myself, in part, a Jewish-American and an American-Jew. A Jew who happen to be an American and an American who happen to be a Jew.
Your curriculum needs significant reworking, starting with its long-term educational goals and how to achieve them.
I am submitting my email and the attached document as my comment on the ESMC.
Thank you very much for your consideration of my opinion and requests.
Sincerely yours,
Davd Kafton, Ph.D.
David Kafton, Ph.D. Owner/Real Estate Broker
Kafton Real Estate

