From: Jacob Tanz Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 4:56 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] CA's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC)
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I appreciate some improvement in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), but I am concerned by the imposition of the offensive, one-sided political ideology that still remains in this proposed draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Here are my major concerns
The BLM lesson in the African American section lists the following as THE resource: https://www.tolerance.org/magazine/summer-2017/bringing-black-lives-matter-into-theclassroom-part-ii In it, Palestine equated with South Africa and Stonewall. This is the same article that describes non-violent civil rights leaders as "passive" and "docile" and condemns considering them to be "heroes."
Appendix A lists a course with the following lesson plan: "Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege. They will be asked to think critically about why and who is allowing this evolutionin white identity." Among the many issues with this assignment is that it, in itself, can be considered anti-Semitic.
One of the approved courses in Appendix A uses Amal Amireh's essay `Palestinian Women's Disappearing Act: The Suicide Bomber Through Western Feminist Eyes.' https://serendipstudio.org/oneworld/system/files/AmirehPalestinianWomen.pdf
One of the approved courses in App A uses Rabab Abdulhadi's textbook, whose FB post is here: https://www.facebook.com/notes/rabab-ibrahim-abdulhadi/justice-for-palestine-a-call-to-actionfrom-indigenous-and-women-of-color-femini/228511860517045
I am a Californian. I don't appreciate these teachings for my kids and grand kids.
I request you to make significant further revisions to the ESMC to address these concerns. Please revise the Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC to use more precise and inclusive terminology, to align with the ESMC Guidelines, to build bridges of intergroup understanding, and to ensure critical thinking. Then adjust the lessons and sample topics accordingly to match the revised principles.
Thank you,
Jacob Tanz

