From: Mary Levi Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 2:56 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum - Public Comment Agenda Item #2
Greetings Commission,
My name is Mary Levi.I am a 4th Grade teacher from Upland Unified School District. I am also Chair of California Teacher Association's American Indian/Alaska Native Caucus. I am writing regarding Agenda item #2, History-Social Science Subject Matter, the recently released draft of the CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
As an elementary educator of 30 years and a Native American (Hopi tribe), I was extremely disappointed in the Native American Studies section of the curriculum. It is clear that Native voices, experience, and perspective have again been given a diluted voice in the development of this model.
I ask that you consider the following as you look towards revision of this draft. 1. Remove the words "Indigenous Studies" from the title and replace it with "Native American Studies/American Indian Studies". By adding "Indigenous Studies" the focus of topics would not remain focused on the Native Americans of California and/or within the United States. 2. Revise or replace "Mascots" sample lesson. The reading of this lesson does not give full historical understanding of this topic. Nor does it attempt to mention California Racial Mascots Act, AB-30 of 2017. 3. Move the "Decolonizing Your Diet" back to the Chicana/o Latina/o Studies and replace it with an effective one in the Native American Studies segment. This lesson does not give equal understanding of Native foods and their relations to the land. 4. Remove the UC approved high school Native American Studies course as they are not culturally relevant in content and pedagogy. 5. Add the over 109 California tribes' languages, regions, and significant figures as basic information to demonstrate that Natives are alive in the present and make significant contributions to our society. 6. This curriculum should not be approved as is, without California Indian "teacher" consultation.
In closing, I support my fellow Ethnic Studies colleagues in addressing the need to have an accurate voice from the Native American community reflected in the CA Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Asqwalli (Thank you),
Mary Levi Hopi Tribal Member 4th Grade Teacher, Upland Unified School District CTA American Indian/Alaska Native, Chair

