From: Moshe Nattiv Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 1:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] THE PROPOSED ESMC DRAFT
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I Moshe NATTIV appreciate some improvement in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), but I am WORRIED by the imposition of the offensive, one-sided political ideology that still remains in this BIASED draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
Here are my major concerns:
ESMC guiding values and principles need revision because they are the basis of each unit and lesson plan. They:
o do not reflect California's shared values, nor the values laid out in AB 2016 o advocate a narrow political philosophy o establish an "us vs them" agenda o partly based on the book Education at War, which encourages "solidarity" and "linkages" with BDS, and anti-Israel narratives, harmful to many Jewish students
The second draft does not prevent teaching offensive politically indoctrinating and anti-Israel elements from ESMC's first draft.
o Add Elements of Balanced Curriculum from the LA Unified School District's Ethnic Studies Curriculum to provide solid ground rules for course development o Numerous sections of the ESMC need revision to expose students to "multiple and often competing sources of information" and ensure that "diverse viewpoints are respected."
The few references to Jews aremisleading and offensive. o Remove links to, and group advocacy of, virulently anti-Israel pro-BDS sites with malicious slander about imaginary genocide o Include Mizrahi and other Jews of color o Add a definition of antisemitism to address various contemporary manifestations of antisemitism, includingstereotyping and double standards against Jews and Jewish institutions from all parts of the political spectrum. o Add specific lesson materials on antisemitism as a form of racism and bigotry
References to Middle Eastern communities should not favor one community over others o If Middle Eastern communities are considered Asian, then under the "broadly defined umbrella of Asian studies" are Mizrahi Jews and other MENA ethnic groups, which represent ~60% of CA's MENA population (estimated 500,000 Californians). o Includealesson plancovering contemporary issues of antisemitism, bigotry, and the Middle Eastern-American Jewish experience.

The ESMC should be revised to accurately and equitably represent the cultural and racial diversity of California so it is balanced, as required by SBE standards and ESMC Guidelines
o If the ESMC includes ethnic groups from the Middle East, it should include Mizrahi Jews and other Middle Eastern communities proportionately. I AM A CALIFORNIAN AND MY WIFE AND I RAISED OUR 3 CHILDREN IN CALIFORNIA. I am A GRANDFATHER OF 4 CHILDREN WHO ARE PART OF THE STUDENT BODY IN CALIFORNIA AND I AM VERY WORRIED ABOUT THE PLANNED ESMC.
I EXPECT you to make significant further revisions to the ESMC to address these concerns. Please revise the Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC to use more precise and inclusive terminology, to align with the ESMC Guidelines, to build bridges of intergroup understanding, and to ensure critical thinking. Then adjust the lessons and sample topics accordingly to match the revised principles.
Thank you,
MOSHE NATTIV
CUPERTINO, CA

