From: Uda Walker Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 10:48 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Save Ethnic Studies! Tell Arab American Stories.
Dear Ethnic Studies Open Comment,
Ethnic Studies has been linked to increases in positive personal, academic, and social outcomes for students.
In the post-9/11 era, exacerbated by Trump's Muslim ban, Arab American students are desperately in need of curriculum that reflects their histories and current realities.
Additionally, the cutting of the Pacific Islander studies program is equally a travesty and only serves to marginalize an important community in California.
Re-instate Arab American Studies and Pacific Islander Studies NOW!
TURATH (Teaching Understanding and Representing Arabs Throughout History) is a 2020 report researched and written by the teenage members of Arab Youth Organizing (AYO). According to AYO's findings, more than 66% of the students surveyed said they received most of their information on Arabs and/or Muslims from the internet or television; only 2.3% learned about Arabs and/or Muslims at school. It's never been clearer how important Ethnic Studies is and we urge you to support the inclusion of Arab American studies in the Asian American studies curriculum.
The current climate in the US, defined by skyrocketing rates of COVID infection among communities of color and the outrage after the killing of George Floyd and others, tells us that all students need comprehensive Ethnic Studies in their K-12 curriculum to build empathy, unity and solidarity with each other, strengthening our movements for justice.
The ESMC is structured around the core pillars developed by the founders of Ethnic Studies in 1969: American Indian studies, Africana/Black studies, Chicanx/Latinx studies, and Asian American studies. Following a decades-long tradition in higher education, the ESMC includes Arab American studies within Asian American studies.
Leading Asian American scholars, including the National Association of Asian American studies, have issued statements defending the inclusion of Arab American studies in the CA ESMC.
Sincerely, Uda Walker

