From: Yury Agroskin Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 5:39 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] The second draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum: my concerns
I am US citizen and a former political refugee from USSR. I am very concerned about the second draft of ESMC which is a move in the right direction but it still has a lot of issues to be resolved. I know how to live in a socialist country and and how students are indoctrinated from kindergarten. This is exactly what is ESMC in the current revision. - It is a very divisive content based on Critical Race theory, which states that "racial inequality emerges from the ... differences that white people create between `races' to maintain elite white interests...". World history proves otherwise. - Numerous sections of the ESMC be revised so that they do not label certain ethnic groups as victims and others as oppressors, creating permanent barriers between students. Rather than building empathy and community, this is likely to stoke resentment, anger and permanent division. This is counter to everyone's best interest. - This document in the current draft is a tool of teaching socialistic ideas to our students, one sided without an objective approach to the facts. - Why only four ethnic groups are mentioned in ESMC? Where is the white race? It does exists. - The Asian American section should be factually correct and reflect California's population.
o The Asian American section should first include all people from geographicallycorrect countries including Indo-American and Korean Americans who are not currently represented.
o If Middle Eastern communities are then added, they should reflect the broad diversity of these communities in California and not only Palestinian and Arab Americans .
o A course that covers the "philosophy" of Nation of Islam must be removed. This group is identified as deeply racist, anti-Semitic and anti-gay by the Southern Poverty Law Center.
o A course about Irish and Jewish Americans, with an assignment for students to write a paper detailing their "gaining racial privilege." is nothing but indoctrination to create racial tension.
I hope a right revision will be undertaken and ESMC will be about inclusiveness, multi cultural diversity with an emphasis on great progress in these aspects achieved in our Country. Regards, Yury Agroskin

