From: Margaret Kallman Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 6:23 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Revised ESMC Comments
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission,
Re: AGENDA ITEM #2 - Attachment 9: Appendix B - Sample Lessons and Topics; Sample Lesson 7: The East L. A. Blowouts. This lesson is about the student boycott of East Los Angeles schools in 1968. In it, a link takes one to a short PBS video of the teenaged students boycotting, and interviews 45 years later with five Hispanic people, aged 60s, who participated as high school students. The five described their high school teachers' absurdly and insultingly low expectations of their academic ability. They recall the boycott very positively. What is not addressed in the Curriculum is a paradox: the five interviewees are all apparently well-educated, and appear to be sophisticated professionals - at least one teaches. Is the theory of the Curriculum that those teachers' bad behavior hinders or prevents the development of such sophistication? If so, how did those five become so sophisticated? That is what the Curriculum should challenge students to answer. This should also be in the Curriculum, to encourage students: One of the schools boycotted was Garfield High. Coincidentally, six years later, in 1974, an Hispanic immigrant, Jaime Escalante, started to teach there. At that time, according to the New York Times, only 45% of Garfield students, 98 percent of whom are Hispanic, and more than half are first-generation Americans, graduated. Thanks to Escalante's inspired teaching and very hard work by students once described as `unteachable', "by 1988, only six schools in the nation prepared more students for the Advanced Placement calculus test than does Garfield. Besides calculus, Garfield offered 16 A.P. courses, including biology, physics, chemistry, Spanish, French, English, computers, United States and European History. The students say they are very proud to be in these classes." One goal of the ESMC is elevating self-esteem. The pride of Garfield A.P. students is well-earned self-esteem resulting from genuine accomplishment. See Something More Than Calculus

Something More Than Calculus
Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from November 6, 1988, Section A, Pa...
Respectfully submitted for your consideration, Margaret Kallman Individual

