From: Aristel Delacruz Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 8:15 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Include Arab American Studies in Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Greeting all,
I wanted to express concern about the edits and erasures made to the Ethnic Studies Curriculum draft. Many of the experts on Ethnic Studies who have been instrumental in early successful implementation of the discipline have been locked out of the editing process. I am an educator in the Bay Area and see the desperate need for an Ethnic Studies curriculum that is rooted in social justice, self-love, love for other communities, and critical thinking. The edits that have been made and are being made jeopardizes the very reason why there was initial interest in this curriculum. Early implementation and studies has shown an authentic Ethnic Studies curriculum yielded positive results in academics, self-esteem, and socio-emotional growth.
Below is a link to a report that highlights the importance of including Arab American studies:
TURATH (Teaching Understanding and Representing Arabs Throughout History) is a 2020 report researched and written by the teenage members of Arab Youth Organizing (AYO). According to AYO's findings, more than 66% of the students surveyed said they received most of their information on Arabs and/or Muslims from the internet or television; only 2.3% learned about Arabs and/or Muslims at school.
I want to also extend similar sentiments specifically to Pacific Islanders as it is my understanding that Pacific Islander narratives have been outright erased from the draft. They have also been categorized into Asian American. Such categorization is a clear indicator that the people in the editing process lack a fundamental understanding of stereotyping and the differences amongst the different groups. Restore the core values the narratives that have since been erased from the curriculum and give power to the actual experts to make these choices.
Thank you for your time, Aristel de la Cruz

