From: Varda Levy Sent: Sunday, August 9, 2020 9:58 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Varda Levy Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I Have been a California resident since 1968. I am a retired educator, who served as an high school English teacher, an assistant principal and a principal at Rancho Buena Vista High School, Vista, California. I know teaching and I know high school students. I am acutely aware of the lack of information and the mis-information in the California educational system concerning the Holocaust, Jewish world history, the Middle East and the State of Israel.
I am writing to you to express my deep concerns with the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum for the state of California. I do appreciate the fact that some improvements have been made in the program; however, there are a number of concerns I still have. Specifically, much of the details in the curriculum is offered as footnotes, not within text information. Students rarely bother with footnotes. Please correct that as important facts and data should be included within the body of the text. In addition, I am concerned with the uneven attention given to Mid-East Jews--Mizrachi Jews. Their troubled history consistent persecution in the Middle East should be aired just as much as you air the history of any other ethnic group in the Middle East. Finally, I vehemently object to giving voice to the BDS movement--a movement that discriminates against and aims to isolate and incriminate the only Jewish state in the Middle East.
In closing--I am now blessed with grandchildren. My oldest grandson is entering his first year of high school education in the city of Los Angeles. His sister will follow in three years. I have great misgivings concerning the quality and veracity of the information to which they will be exposed concerning their own background and ethnicity. To me this is highly personal. I ask you to make significant revision of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns.
Thank you for listening--
Varda
Varda Levy

