From: Jill Eskenazi Sent: Saturday, August 8, 2020 7:17 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] New Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC of the CBE,
I want to thank you for the recent improvements to the ESMC, chiefly the removal of anti-semitic slurs from the text.
However, I continue to be concerned about the recommended ESMC, which remains flawed in important ways.
The threat of violent anti-semitism is greater now than it has been any time since Nazi Germany. The current proposed curriculum encourages solidarity with virulently anti-semitic groups, such as BDS. The BDS movement unapologetically intimidates Jewish students on campuses in California. Most notably, there have been dozens of cases where Jewish students at UCLA were afraid to be seen wearing a Star of David necklace, a skullcap, or other identifying marker. Imagine if Christian students were afraid to wear jewelry featuring a cross -- truly unimaginable in our country. Jewish students are members of a minority group, and they deserve the right to identify and worship as they please.
Having grown up around Holocaust survivors, I personally have heard their stories. I have gotten my education. Today's students deserve to get theirs.
A few years ago, when I was working as a social worker at Year Up, a non-profit in San Jose that served adolescents from marginalized communities, I had a very disturbing experience. A youngster stood up in a group where we were encouraged to share, and told us all that he thinks what happened to the Japanese-Americans on the West Coast of the US during World War II was worse than the Holocaust because, "the Jews didn't have to stay in Germany -- they could just go to Israel." Naturally, I was incensed to hear this, but I could excuse it as the fault of this youngster's poor education. The truly distressing thing was that my colleagues agreed with this ignorant and dangerous point of view. They told me that Jews were not victims and that I should not try to educate our students about the history of Jewish oppression.
Frankly, as a lifelong Liberal, who has worked hard for social justice, I am appalled that we are not doing more to foster genuine understanding.
I implore you to make significant revisions of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum to address these concerns. Thank you for your attention to this matter,
Jill Eskenazi, MSW Los Altos, CA

