Arthur and Miriam Bodin [address redacted] Palo Alto, CA 94301
EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov
Gentlemen and Gentleladies:
For a bit of background: we are grandparents living in Palo Alto since 1965. We have both worked all our lives as educators and have supported wholeheartedly the public education system for our children and grandchildren.
We have been deeply concerned by the ways in which educating our students has gradually moved from a focus on preparing our students to be well educated participatory citizens in this precious republic to a system of teaching that has had a focus on only one set of values. That is too complicated an issue for right now.
Today we are writing to express our concern that the Ethnic Studies Curriculum is a slanted anti-American and anti-free market screed. Yes, there have been corrections made to the initial draft which was virulently anti-semitic and hostile to other minority groups (or ignoring them completely).
I cannot state strongly enough how disappointed we are in the California School System as we move further into the 21st century and seem to be focused more on diversity studies than preparing students in the basic skills of becoming functioning citizens. This curriculum should have never been created in the first place when so many students are graduating with such meagre skills in reading, computing, and critical thinking.
Since it is a "fait compli" we simply want to add our displeasure with the second draft and the reliance on depicting the four identified "ethnic" groups as victims and poorly or under-appreciated members of society.
Please note that we are not in any way bashing the contributions to this state and to the country by the many minority groups who make up California. We believe the curriculum fosters even more fragmentation than already exists and instead of supporting the melting pot nature of our development, it actually foments separatism.
In the hope that those of you on the committee will make sure to note these comments and those of the many others who are sure to write to you.
Sincerely, Miriam and Arthur Bodin, Palo Alto

