From: Wesley Hingano Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 10:54 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] We are Ocean! Pacific Islander Students in CA k-12
Dear QC Commissioners,
On behalf of Oakland High School and Oakland Unified School District, I am submitting comments in response to the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I am writing to express my concerns regarding the lack of Pacific Islander (PI) and Arab American Studies representation in the latest draft of the ESMC.
As the only employee in the district that is Idiginous to Oceania I feel a call to always uplift the voices and experiences of Pacific Isalnder students here in Oakland. I have been working in the Oakland Unified School District as a Case Manager for three years now and I am actively involved in the Tongan community as the chair of the Laurel United Methodist Church Education Committee. In addition to my professional and community roles I am a doctoral student in the San Francisco State Educational Leadership Program. In the last several years we have seen a need to establish events and programs that cater to Pacific Isalnder students. My focus area for my dissertation research is seeking what role does Pacific Isalnder students' identity play in their education journey and in what ways can schools/districts foster Pacific Isalnder students and their identity.
Growing up in the California K-12 education system and never seeing anything in textbooks and or curriculum that speaks to who I am and my identity made me feel lonely and told me that I did not belong. I believe that the role of Ethnic Studies is to give an opportunity for underrepresented ethnic minority populations representation in curriculum. Ethnic Studies has the opportunity to showcase the diversity that we have in California by including Pacific Islander and Arab American Studies in the curriculum which will increase students' sense of belonging. .
I urge the CDE Curriculum Team and Instructional Quality Commission to pass an ESMC that includes Pacific Islander and Arab American studies course outlines moving forward and work with the respective communities to ensure this happens. We also demand that the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) committee of writers and experts be reconvened. This committee of Ethnic Studies scholars and teachers are the experts on Ethnic Studies curriculum and pedagogy.
Sincerely, Wesley Hingano, M.Ed Oakland High School Oakland Unified School District Case Manager

