From: Lori Meyers Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 11:59 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments on latest draft of ESMC and student mental health
Dear CA BOE and IQC,
I'm a California teacher and the parent of two children who have been through public schools.
I am deeply concerned about the lack of guiding principles and guardrails in the ESMC. While teachers need latitude in "how" they teach, there must be guardrails in place to specify "what" they teach. Narrow political views are not only inappropriate in the classroom and opposed to best educational practices of balance and critical thinking, they go against the CA History-Social Science Framework. Subjective phrases like "connect ourselves to past and contemporary resistance movements" have no place in a CA curriculum if there are no guardrails as one person's "resistance movement" is another person's "terrorist." Please fix these principles to ensure a protected and balanced curriculum that is developmentally appropriate for high school students, while recognizing that these students can be as young as 14 years old.
I am also deeply concerned about the divisive tone of the curriculum as it relates to student mental health. With the steep increase in student mental health and suicide, we must be sensitive to the socialemotional aspects of a curriculum. When students feel unsafe or targeted, they cannot learn. Setting up a curriculum based on critical race theory, which states that "racial inequality emerges from the ... differences that white people create between `races' to maintain elite white interests..." is essentially setting up a classroom that groups students into oppressors versus oppressed. Any classroom that is set up with a "versus" model is pedagogically inappropriate and designed to polarize.
Our shared goal as educators is to grow students who love learning, can think critically, and who become productive and contributing members of our democracy. Please fix this curriculum so that it accomplishes this.
Lori Meyers Palo Alto, CA

