From: Ronna Shpall Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 4:27 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] concerns re ESMC
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education, I am a California middle school social studies and ELD teacher of 35 years, and I have grandchildren in California schools. I am concerned about the current draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum for the following reasons: 1. Preface P. 4 line 70 The term "white dominated culture" assumes there is racism and
promotes anti white attitudes. Many nationalities of students ie newcomers such as the ones I taught --Bulgarian, Russian, Lithuanian, Polish etc. are white, and to teach other students to stereotype them as the part of the "white" dominant "culture" would be unjust. Similar labels of "white supremacy" are found in Sample Lesson Plan 10 on the Chinese Railroad Workers. 2. The Guiding Values and Principles are based to some extent on the book Education at War. Essays in this politically biased book foster racism, encourage victimhood, promote "resistance," in addition to anti-Israel themes. 3. The Preface P.5, lines 95-96 and Sample Lesson #2, state the ethnic studies curriculum is based on the "Third World Liberation Front (TWLF)". This doctrine promotes students strikes and activism, activities which further racial division. 4. In Sample Lesson Plan 7 P.55-59, lines 1093-1213, "Blowout," students are asked to study the
walkout of Mexican Americans students at Garfield High School in East Los Angeles in 1968, and federal authorities charged some with `invoking riots.' For example, these students had a list of demands for staff and student classes. Other demands were that students should not be disciplined, and they insisted that teachers be paid to take Spanish classes, students should be paid or given credit for helping teachers, and mothers should be paid to make lunches in the cafeteria. Young people do not manage family finances, and they're not equipped nor do they understand school and school district budgets. Emphasizing this revolt encourages young people to not take responsibility for the consequences of their behavior and defy school authority. This curriculum seems to denigrate and manipulate US history by teaching victimhood rather than teaching self reliance.

