From: David Cyrluk Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 2:30 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft 2
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission,
I appreciate some improvement in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), but I am concerned by the imposition of the offensive, one-sided political ideology that still remains in this flawed draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
Here are my major concerns:
1. While draft 2 of the ESMC does have the addition of guidance to teachers to expose students to "multiple and often competing sources of information" and foster respect for diverse viewpoints, problems remain. Based on the problematic "Guiding Values and Principles," the ESMC promotes and romanticizes specific political ideologies with no counterbalancing perspective. The bibliography contains a preponderance of texts advocating a proselytizing version of Ethnic Studies while omitting seminal texts describing a more balanced approach.
2. There are references and links to anti-Israel and pro-BDS references. An example of his is the inclusion of a lesson in Appendix B on Movement for Black Lives (M4BL), which is an aggressively pro-BDS lobbying organization.
3. Appendix A lists a course with the following lesson plan: "Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege. They will be asked to think critically about why and who is allowing this evolutionin white identity." Among the many issues with this assignment is that it, in itself, can be considered anti-Semitic.
I am a Californian and father of three that have graduated from the California public school system. As a child, I went to one of the first elemenary schools to be integrated through bussing. As such I appreciate the great progress that has been made due to the heroic efforts of the non-violent civil rights leaders of the '60s. I hope that additional progress can be built on their achievements to correct remaining injustices, I am, thus, pained that an article listed as a source in the BLM section of the African American section describes non-violent civil rights leaders as "passive and "docile".
Many years ago I traveled to Ukraine to visit the small village from where my ancestors came and where most of them died. I learned first hand the dire consequences of where antisemitism takes hold and where regular people are indoctrinated to resort to violence and demonization to address problems in society and the economy. The ESMC can be a powerful tool to ward off that possibility, Unfortunately, as currently constituted it falls short and, in

places, might actually work toward that terrible possibility.
I urge you to make significant further revisions to the ESMC to address these concerns. Please revise the Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC to use more precise and inclusive terminology, to align with the ESMC Guidelines, to build bridges of intergroup understanding, and to ensure critical thinking. Then adjust the lessons and sample topics accordingly to match the revised principles.
Thank you,
David Cyrluk San Jose, CA

