From: Susan George Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 11:59 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Rachel Bracker; Lauren Post Subject: [EXTERNAL] IQC Meeting - Agenda Item 2
Dear Commissioners, Progressive Zionists of California (PZC) is a grassroots collective of activists and California Democratic Party leaders dedicated to reshaping the discourse around Zionism and antisemitism in California Democratic politics. I write to you on behalf of our growing community of over 250 California Democrats.
Firstly, thank you for all the hard work on the second draft of this curriculum. We are grateful for the numerous improvements, and the primary focus on the four foundational disciplines.
However, we do have concerns about the portrayal of Jewish Americans. Unfortunately, the failure to understand Jewish history and culture in an intersectional context has resulted in a draft that still contains lingering antisemitism. While significantly improved from the 2019 draft, this 2020 draft erases the existence of Jews of Color, ignores the history of Mizrahi and Sephardi Jews, and emphasizes Jewish acquisition of white privilege instead of substantively addressing modern Jewhatred.
For example, the draft includes language that compares Jewish assimilation to Irish assimilation in America in a way that falsely implies antisemitism can be solved through the acquisition of whiteness, while also actively erasing the existence of Jews of Color, including California's sizable Sephardic and Mizrahi Jewish populations. The draft clearly does not recognize the central role of antisemitism within white nationalism--a primary driver of online extremism that results in dangerous, real world violence. In order to address the above concerns, PZC would like to suggest that the drafters work with the organization JIMENA, Jews Indigineous to the Middle East and North Africa. They have designed an excellent lesson plan entitled, Antisemitism and Middle Eastern American Jews, specifically for grades 9-12. We thank you again for your excellent work. PZC remains committed to supporting ethnic studies and AB 2016.
Sincerely,
Susan George

Susan George
Executive Director she/her/hers

