From: Sandra Morey Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 7:45 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Superintendent; [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Include Arab American and Pacific Islander Studies in CA Ethnic Studies Curriculum
I am a concerned community member. I have stood with students of various backgrounds as they struggle to have their communities represented in the Ethnic Studies curriculum. It is important for all of us to have this background in order to achieve a more empathetic future. At this point it is very important that we have empathy for others who's background is different from our own.
Our country is experiencing an uptick in violence that seems ethnically driven. Arab American and Pacific Islander scholars and teachers are most able to form curriculum that is accurate on this subject. I feel that to redefine ethnic studies as multicultural may make certain assumptions that are not true. We all need to know where we came from and why we are in this country at this time. We all benefit from knowing the history of the various people who have come here. I also feel that Palestinians should be included in Arab American studies.
Our nation still has colonies. There are many colonials who now live in the United States. Why did they come? Who are they in historical context? What is meant by sovereignty? We are currently trying to build a huge Thirty Meter Telescope on the sacred site of Mauna Kea. What does this struggle mean for the Hawaiians who are now living here because the Islands are now the 50th state? There are issues to be considered by people who are American citizens but also have strong historical ties to their home countries. Not every student is an American citizen. We have many residents who have not yet become citizens. We must learn to live together and Ethnic studies are very important toward all students understanding each other.
Why wouldn't I as a Jewish American want to know my Palestinian friends' history and issues. Why wouldn't they want to know mine? Same with Pacific Islanders, Native peoples of various origins including the various American Indian tribes?
Thank you for your kind attention to this matter. Sincerely, Sandra Morey Music teacher Oakland, Ca

