From: Alex Gold Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 10:16 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Guiding Values and Principles of ESMC - CONCERN
To: Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education.
Hello, My name is Alex Gold. I reside in Walnut Creek, California. I write to you as a parent of 2 teenage girls who are about to enter high school. I am highly concerned today about your latest ESMC draft. While I like some of the changes you have included in it, mainly about removal of some of the anti-semitic language used as well as advising teachers to expose students to diverse sources of information and viewpoints, I am appalled that the Guiding Values and Principles of ESMC still include references to Education at War and Pedagogies of Resistance, books with an anti-Israel bias that promote BDS and Anti-Zionism, and further link the struggle of Palestinian, often violent, resistance to our social-justice movements here at home. No mention of equally painful and historical struggles of Jews who also happen to be the indigenous population of Palestine, or of a million Mizrahi Jews who were kicked out of the Arab and Muslim countries within the same time period. This is purposely biased and offensive to a large segment of Californians who are pro-democracy, pro-human right, pro-gay-rights, pro-women-rights, pro-peace and PRO-ISRAEL. I would expect our educators to educate themselves before subjecting a whole generation of our kids to such vile anti-semitic concepts at such an early age. BDS is immoral, is opposed by most of the Palestinians who are equal citizens of the state of Israel, and was founded by extremists who openly advocate for the destruction of a UN member state. BDS was clearly identified as anti-semitic by Nancy Pelosi and overwhelming majority of the congress members of both parties. Why such a one-sided presentation of the only democracy in the Middle East? This is obviously aimed at creating a narrative that discredits a specific country among so many nations in the region, and the wider world, who have statistically and objectively a far worse human rights record. To do that, to unfairly choose one Jewish state in the world and treat it differently than all others, in order to slander and de-legitimize it is ANTI-SEMITIC, and I would like to know who is driving this narrative in your committee and why. Please consider building bridges and adding diversity to your own views and sources of information to design an inclusive curriculum for the wider Californian community that will help us raise free thinkers and peace makers.

Regards, Alex Gold Immigrant, Californian

