From: Malaea F. T. Coleman Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 11:17 AM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Malaea F. T. Coleman Subject: [EXTERNAL] SUPPORT PACIFIC ISLANDER STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA
Talofa and Aloha,
My name is Malaea Fepulea'i To'omalatai Coleman, Founder of the Pacific Islanders Education Voyage at the Long Beach Unified School District. On behalf of the Pacific Islanders Education Voyage, I am submitting comments in response to the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I write to express grave concerns regarding the lack of Pacific Islander and Arab American Studies representation in the latest draft of the ESMC.
We need to include our historical Pacific Islander cultures, traditions, and customs in the school curriculum. We are enough and deserve more as Pacific Islanders. Pacific Islanders contribute the most to the United States as follows:
1. Represent the highest in military member services per capita 2. Recognize U.S. Trust Territories (American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), Republic of the Marshall Islands 3. Hawaii annexed in 1959 4. Japan attacked Pearl Harbor (Hawaii was a territory and Kingdom of Hawaii) 5. Navigation without instruments to acquire such knowledge from ancestors 6. Space exploration on the mountain of Maunakea and use of the sovereign lands 7. Kwajalein Atoll, Republic of the Marshall Islands (Atomic Bomb Tests) 8. Pacific Islanders - prominent educators, leaders in government, music, and film 9. History of each Pacific Island and its people are important to the United States 10. Include it. Teach it. Live it. The 50th star represents the state of Hawaii. It's who we are.
Only two things were taught in education. 1. Attack on Pearl Harbor. 2. Hawaii became a state.
I urge the CDE Curriculum Team and Instructional Quality Commission to pass an ESMC that includes Pacific Islander and Arab American studies course outlines moving forward and work with the respective communities to ensure this happens. We also demand that the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) committee of writers and experts be reconvened. This committee of Ethnic Studies scholars and teachers are the experts on the Ethnic Studies curriculum and pedagogy.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit comments on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Please do not hesitate to contact me via email to provide further information.

Fa'afetai, Mahalo and God Bless,
Malaea Fepulea'i To'omalatai Coleman LBUSD Pacific Islanders Education Voyage Founder

