From: Carol Burns Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 5:12 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear CDE:
I am a California resident, concerned about the new ESMC curriculum. I will likely become a grandparent in the next few years, and I have close friends with grandchildren, so this is personal for me. However, beyond my own personal interests, I am concerned for our society and what we are teaching the next generation.
I commend you for updating your guidelines and including the promotion of different points of view. But there are still many areas of deep concern with the curriculum.
As a Jew, I am keenly aware of the dangers of stereotyping groups. And while I commend you for removing some explicitly antisemitic slurs from the curriculum, your treatment of Jews and Zionism will still increase antisemitism, which has already been on the rise. For example, the curriculum teaches the stereotype that Jews and the Irish have gained racial privilege. And your treatment of Israel, if only in footnotes and bibliography, is inaccurate, one-sided and biased, holding Israel up to an unfair, higher standard than every other country on earth, and falsely comparing it so South Africa. Jews have been falsely typecast this way throughout history. Jews are the victims of more hate crimes than many other minorities in the U.S. Your curriculum should address and counter the scapegoating and stereotyping of Jews in our society as the urgent crisis that it has become, rather than add to it.
In addition, your teaching that systemic racism is evident by unequal distribution of resources has no place in school curriculum in a free society. While equality of opportunity is our goal, equality of outcome cannot be used as a barometer of systemic racism. Again, this pits one citizen against another and will only foster misery by having students compare themselves with others rather than look within and believe in their own ability to create the life they want.
Please revise the curriculum.
Sincerely, Carol Burns Los Angeles, CA

