From: Arthur Bobrove Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 10:21 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] The Proposed Revised Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,

I want to commend your effort to make some improvements in the Ethnic Studies Model

Curriculum (ESMC), but I am nevertheless still concerned by the imposition of the offensive,

one-sided political ideology that has been retained in this proposed draft of California's Ethnic

Studies Model Curriculum.

Let me begin by expressing my dread at the worsening polarization in our American Society.

Every effort should be made to mitigate it and, in no way, potentially enhance it. The very title of

the book on which the ESMC is based, , "Education at War" by Arshad I. Ali, instills an

emotional and subjective element, not to mention its very contents. I believe that you would

agree, that educational material should be as objective as possible in order to avoid

further polarisation.

I do not want to imply that Professor Ali has a specific agenda, but "Education at War" in effect,

encourages teachers to "develop solidarity and create linkages" with anti-Zionism, BDS,

and anti-Israel narratives, as an example. It is imperative that the guiding values and

principles of ESMC be revised to ensure that they cannot be used to justify promoting

any hateful situations in the classroom.

I urge you to revisit the textbook in question and any other questionable resources, and

make further revisions to the ESMC to ensure that there is to be critical and objective

thinking and learning.

I am a physician who practices medicine at the Palo Alto Veterans Administration Medical

Center. I have two grandsons who attend School in Palo Alto and am very concerned that they

receive an education free of bigotry and hate.

Thank you,

Arthur M. Bobrove, MD

Clinical Professor of

Medicine,

Stanford University and Palo Alto VA Medical Center

