From: Sheila Kay Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 3:51 PM To: Ethnic Studies; [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Response to Second Draft of Ethic Studies
To: Ethnic Studies / California Dept of Education
Re: Second Draft of Ethnic Studies Curriculm needs more work
My name is Sheila Kuniyoshi. I am a California voter, retired social studies HS and Jr College Instructor.
1. The second draft of the Ethnic Studies Model fails to address my concerns ::
This second draft continues to promote biased political indoctrination promoting
a them vs us agenda... Who wrote, read and approved this one sided politically biased course? Where are the educators?I was taught in Education 101 Educate do not Indoctrinate.
2. This draft fails to promote tolerance, respect for differences or promote an honest dialogue based on an understand of all minorities
This draft fails to accurately represent Middle eastern communities that are "broadly defined under the umbrella of Asian studies"
Why are the Mizrahi Jews, Middle East and North African (MENA) approximately 500,000 California's not included in your curriculum?All references to Middle Eastern people in the curriculum should include, specifically name, and teach on the diverse groups of Mizrahi Jews, Coptic Christians, Kurds, Iranians, Assyrians, and other minority groups from the region who together represent 60% of California's Middle Eastern population and have asked for inclusion. In order for the curriculum to avoid an essentialist understanding of Arabs and the Middle East, and in order to be well balanced, each group should be equally and equitably represented in the Ethnic Studies Curriculum.
I would like to see the third draft of the curriculum include the lesson plan, "Antisemitism as the Middle Eastern-American Jews" produced by the organization, JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa, as it will provide students with high-quality instruction on contemporary issues of antisemitism, bigotry, and the Middle EasternAmerican Jewish experience
Our diverse society depends on our educators to present a balanced inclusive Ethnic Studie curriculum. I urge you to revise this draft and address my central concerns in an effort to respectfully educate rather than indoctrinate the next generation of citizens.
Respectively,

Sheila Blecher Kuniyoshi, B.A. M.A. [address redacted] Cupertino, C 95014

