From: Jessie Davidson Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 6:09 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] please modify the anti-Semitic elements of the ESMC
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the CA Board of Education,
I understand that some of the offensive material has been removed from the proposed curriculum--thank you for that. I also understand that some elements are left in, and I want to voice my very strong objection. I am mother to a current high school student in Mountain View, California, and both of my kids have passed their entire time at school in CA public schools. Once before, I spearheaded a group to get a vile, hateful, anti-Semitic story removed from the curriculum in a high school English class. The school, the teachers and the principal showed so much resistance to removing the story that I now know how easily anti-Semitism can proliferate in California schools.
No public school should ever impose a political ideology of any kind on students, as this betrays their duty to protect and inform the students. But to impose a hateful ideology that portrays Israelis as the bad actors (and the sole bad actors) in the Palestinian-Israeli disputes is particularly objectionable. For one thing, it is an ahistorical and biased view. For another, the curriculum seems to sidestep the fact that Jews have been in history probably the single most maligned and abused ethnic group. Even in the US, Jews far outnumber any other ethnic group as victims of religiously motivated assaults, even though they are such a small percentage of the population. What is worse, overt anti-Semitism is gaining ground in the mainstream of the Democrat party and in common political discourse. To present a curriculum that ignores this, or explains it away as Jews/Israelis somehow bringing it on themselves is not helpful and makes matters worse.
It grieves me very much that California would even be considering such a curriculum. I can say with no hesitation whatsoever that if this curriculum is imposed on my son, I will remove him immediately from the public school system and vote against any moneys that would be given to the system through taxes or bonds.
Sincerely,
Jessica Davidson MD Los Altos, CA

