From: Sam Cramer Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 10:14 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear members of Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
While some improvements have been made to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, the most recent draft of the ESMC is an egregiously flawed document. If it is adopted, it will undoubtedly contribute to the rising tide of antisemitism we are witnessing here in California and throughout the country.
I am Jewish, and in my supposedly quiet and forward-thinking town of Sunnyvale I have been confronted multiple times by blatant displays of anti-semitism cloaked in the more politically correct, but equally poisonous, guise of "anti-Zionism". Walking to synagogue while wearing a kippah (yarmulke) I have had insults screamed at me about the supposed failings of Israel by occupants of passing cars. For months, every time I waited at the stop light at the exit of Route 85 I had to gaze at a sticker which depicted a television emblazoned with the Star of David and the slogan "obey." Students I know who attended California public universities reported feeling threatened by well-organized and well-funded anti-semitic/anti-Israel forces on campus. On these campuses, pro-Israel speakers are shouted down, Jewish institutions are vandalized with "anti-Israel" slogans, and Jewish representatives in student government are harrassed and smeared with allegations of "dual loyalty", a classic anti-semitic charge.
This sort of harassment is now invading our public schools, and many of the architects of the college "anti-Zionist" campaign are pushing to indoctrinate public school students with the same kind of hateful propaganda which is now commonplace on college campuses, as the antiIsrael bias of the EMSC draft attests.
I am a parent. No one should have to explain why to their children why people are screaming at them because they are Jews and why so many openly espouse the liquidation of the Jewish state. I have had to do both, repeatedly, because bigots are able to openly promote their vicious views by wrapping themselves in putative concern for "justice for the oppressed," which is curiously confined to the supposed "victims" of Israel, the most progressive and just country in the Middle East.
It's time for this hate-mongering to come to an end! Anti-Zionism is anti-semitism: it denies the Jewish people the national rights every other people properly enjoys, and employs all the classic tropes of anti-semitism: dual loyalty, brutality, moneyed interests weidling secret power and on and on and on. The hate speech which permeates the current draft of the ESMC must be excised and the document thoroughly reworked so that it promotes understanding and amity, and not bigotry.

Sincerely, Sam Cramer Sunnyvale CA

