From: VICTORIA SAMPER Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 5:32 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [email redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] California Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
I appreciate some improvement in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), but I am deeply concerned by the imposition of the offensive, one-sided political ideology that still remains in this flawed draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I was an elementary school teacher for over 10 years. I moved to the United States in 1986 because I felt I could have a better life. It never occurred to me that I was a victim. It never occurred to me that I would not succeed. I worked hard and made a better life for myself. I feel deeply that the proposed curriculum is anti "the American dream".
Here are my major concerns:
1. The curriculum focuses on how ethnic groups have been oppressed. All examples are of groups that have not succeeded. The curriculum should include examples of groups that have overcome adversity (Japanese, Jews, Cubans) within a time frame of 2 to 3 generations.
2. The curriculum should teach young minds how to succeed in a new endeavor, how to get "there" from here, rather than focus on why they aren't "there".
3. The curriculum allows for districts to determine what examples and what ethnic groups to address. However, the range of teaching plans they have to choose from are limited in scope - show only one perspective. More teaching plans that address success stories of those who have overcome adversity should be included in both the sample agendas and in the resources.
4. The curriculum needs some changes to the fundamental principles which guided its development. There should be a clearly stated principle to require more than one perspective to be included. For example, showing only violent forms of protest and not examples of creating change by working within the system.
5. The Latinx agendas and course samples are incomplete and inadequate. 90% are based on Chicano issues and one example of El Salvador. The curriculum should have the students research how many CA legislators are from communities of color, for example. Show some success stories to encourage students. To show that we can succeed.
6. The four "L" of oppression, as a course focus dissuades students that feel O.K., that feel part of the community, to voice their feelings. Life should not be defined by how the student's community has been oppressed. Education should encourage finding ways to overcome adversity that is not only knocking down, burning down, looting, and destroying - but rather creating economic opportunity and growth.

7. The curriculum sample agendas use cases that are 40 years old (El Salvador 1980). This is history. What is happening now? If Latinx is going to discuss the migration of Central Americans to the US, it should address the reason for it - the wars caused by the influence of the USSR and its push to spread communism in Latin America, how farmers were displaced, starving the population, and rendering the people incapable of self-sustaining, economic activity.
I urge you to make significant changes to the ESMC to address these concerns. Please revise the Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC to use more precise and inclusive terminology, to align with the ESMC Guidelines, to build bridges of intergroup understanding, and to ensure critical thinking. Then adjust the lessons and sample topics accordingly to match the revised principles.
Thank you,
Victoria Samper Berkeley, California
Latino for Quality Education

