From: Angelina Fa Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 7:51 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies - Written for IQC Members
Dear IQC Members,
My name is Angie Fa. I appreciate the IQC appointment to the Model Ethnic Studies Advisory Committee based on my Ethnic Studies PhD, experience serving on the San Francisco School Board, and decades of work creating and serving as Instructor and Chair of Asian American Studies at City College of San Francisco. I am writing about the cuts in the revised draft in section 2A.
The revised Ethnic Studies Curriculum draft removes vital information classroom teachers need to develop informative lesson plans especially in Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies. We learned there are only 2 high school classes in the entire state of California which are University of California approved to focus solely on Asian American Studies. Neither class has any information on the Pacific Islander or Arab American communities. The edits to the Ethnic Studies Draft have stripped away all material on the Pacific Islander and Arab American communities. The only acknowledgement is the insertion of Pacific Islander into the name only, but any information and lesson plan for classroom teachers to use as a basis for teaching about Pacific Islanders has been deleted. Also removed is the lesson plan on the Cambodian American community.
What has been retained from the Ethnic Studies Draft is the least useful part of Additional Sample Topics for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The key portion for teachers to use on potential significant figures has been removed, including key historic Americans of Pacific Islander, Korean, South Asian and Sikh backgrounds. What remains is a list of less significant historic organizations that I was asked to submit when I told the group that the Asian American community could not be characterized by one dominant organization because it is so diverse. It is far easier for a classroom teacher to research and present a historic individual than a complex organizational history.
The Pacific Islander community especially feels like they have not been able to be part of the process in developing this key resource for California classroom teachers, they had no representation on the Advisory Committee. There are 51 countries and territories in Asia and 23 more in Oceania. The revised Ethnic Studies draft does not give classroom teachers the tools required to begin to cover Asian American and Pacific Islander communities that have been significant in United States history which is crucial to meet student and community needs. Where can classroom teachers find the resources to develop lesson plans? Especially since all materials on Pacific Islanders and Arab Americans is also missing from the only 2 UC approved high school courses in Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies in the whole state of California it belongs in the model curriculum.

Please reinstate the missing material classroom teachers need so they can develop useful lesson plans.
Sincerely, Angie Fa

