From: Judy William Sent: Monday, August 10, 2020 9:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] I support further revision of the Ethnic studies curriculum in California
Dear Instructional Quality Commission of the California Board of Education,
My name is Judith William, and I have been an ESL teacher in Mountain View-Los Altos Adult Education for forty years. I am also a grandparent of four high school and college students. I appreciate the changes that have already been made in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, but I object to such leftest expressions as "post-imperial life" and "radical healing." I'd like to see less of a doctrinaire philosophy, and more encouragement of diverse thinking, historical context, encouragement of questions, and such. I fear that there will be an "us vs. them" agenda, and not enough discussion of some positive aspects of America and reasons why so many people from other countries fight so hard to come to this country.
My father was born in 1909, raised in an orphanage, and was given a scholarship to attend NYU, eventually becoming a successful CPA. Many of his "brothers" in the institution went on to become doctors, dentists, lawyers and principals. In my forty years of teaching ESL classes, I saw how motivated my students were to learn English and successfully follow the American Dream, and I don't think this aspect of our country should be given short shrift. Students nowadays need to understand not only the unfortunate part of our history (and some current policies), but also be given hope for the future and motivation to work for positive changes.
As a Jewish American, I also hope that anti-Semitism will be given its due coverage in the curriculum because it is a serious and growing problem. I don't like many of the policies of the Israeli government, but promoting anti-Israel policies is not conducive to peace and understanding.
Thank you for considering my ideas. I hope still more improvement in the curriculum will be considered and enacted.

Sincerely, Judith William

