From: Misa, Fagasavali Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 11:19 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public Comment for IQC meeting on 8/13/2020
Dear Instructional Quality Commission:
On behalf of Samoan Solutions and History and Social Science teachers of SFUSD, I am submitting comments in response to the current Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. I write to express grave concerns regarding the lack of Pacific Islander AND Arab American Studies representation in the latest draft of the ESMC.
For the past 12 years I have belonged to local community organization Samoan Solutions. Our work as a non-profit revolves heavily around cultural identity, cultural preservation and connecting the Pacific Islander community to social services. It is very important in the work that we do that Pacific Islanders are accurately represented in every public setting. There is a need for culturally competent service providers to engage our community members and similarly representation of Pacific Islanders needs to be within school systems to engage our youth.
While I am a new teacher to the History and Social Sciences field, as a Samoan-American citizen, I can attest that our Pacific Island history is often left out of the current U.S. history narrative and curriculum as well as that of World history. And yet many Pacific Island nations are current and former territories of the United States and other world powers for 120 years and longer. We will not be disregarded any longer! The histories and heritage of our Pacific Islander people has a place within California classrooms and our students deserve to see themselves reflected within their schools.
I urge the CDE Curriculum Team and Instructional Quality Commission to pass an ESMC that includes Pacific Islander and Arab American studies course outlines moving forward and work with the respective communities to ensure this happens. We also demand that the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) committee of writers and experts be reconvened. This committee of Ethnic Studies scholars and teachers are the experts on Ethnic Studies curriculum and pedagogy.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit comments on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Please do not hesitate to contact me to provide further information
Sincerely,
-Faga Misa Special Education Teacher Visitacion Valley Middle School Executive Board Vice President Samoan Solutions

