From: Jo-Ann Jacobson Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 7:22 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC - Ethnic Studies
Dear IQC Members,
I am submitting the attached document as my comment on the ESMC. I applaud the CDE for making important changes to the ESMC, and appreciate their hard work during this time. While this new draft is a step in the right direction, I urge you to make further changes to address shortcomings that remain in the curriculum.
I am a realtor in Walnut Creek, CA. I have 4 school-age grandchildren.
It is outrageous that BDS should be considered as a good idea for students to study and support and advocate. At its essence, BDS, is a tool to achieve the elimination of Israel and to replace it with an Arab majority country. Its originators believe Israel should not exist. The wording of BDS calls for 3 generations of descendants of Palestinians who left Israel after they lost their war to destroy Israel in 1948, be returned to Israel. They would then be a majority and win the Israeli elections. It's laughable and ludicrous to think that a powerful country like Israel, that any country, would even counter such a notion.
Setting that aside, History matters! Four Arab countries, along with the Palestinians, attempted to destroy and annihilate Israelis (85% Jewish) in three other wars. They lost each time. Now what they can't do directly by war, they are trying to accomplish through BDS and here, by infiltrating the California Schools Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. So that young Californians, in essence, will believe that Israel should not exist as a separate country. And to teach them how to argue that BDS and the elimination of Israel are ethical and necessary. Think about that! How outrageous that is! At its base, this is pure hatred and is an example itself of the many different forms of Jew-Hatred (anti-Semitism) that can appear. This itself would be an excellent topic for the model curriculum: Jew-Hatred and its many deadly forms and disguises.
This is pure Jew-hating. It is the highest form of Jewhatred: the elimination of the Jewish people. Six million Jews were eliminated by Germany's war against the Jews

as part of WWII. If Israel stands for one thing it is the preservation of the Jewish people, and that "Never again" means never again. If one disagrees with a policy of a government of a country, does that mean that that country is eliminated? Should China be eliminated because it is holding one million Chinese Muslims in camps? Should Syria be eliminated because it's government killed 500,000 of its citizens? Why is this elimination only applied to one country, the only Jewish people's country in the world(NB: Jewish people, not the religion) To consider BDS a legitimate study within a model Curriculum is outrageous and abandonment of reason. Shame upon anyone who allowed this ludicrous proposal, this attack upon the Jewish people, to even advance this far in California government as a rational, serious proposition.
Respectfully, Jo-Ann Jacobson

