From: Aimee Riechel Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 11:34 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Revised Ethnic Studies
Dear IQC Members,
My name is Aimee Riechel. I was an original member of the model curriculum advisory committee and I appreciate the opportunity I had to serve with the incredible group of practitioners and experts. I am writing about the concerns I have in the revised draft of the model curriculum.
The changes and revisions made in the original draft shift the tone, tenor and perspective of the model curriculum from one that centered the voices and ideas of Ethnic Studies to one that centers multiculturalism and the social science-history framework, effectively reducing the ethnic studies to token representation.
As former members of the California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Advisory Committee, I was waiting with great anticipation for this final draft. Given that we were not included in revising the Curriculum, nor does it seem were other Ethnic Studies expert practitioners, we offer our analysis on the REVISED document which IS NOT AN ETHNIC STUDIES MODEl CURRICULUM.
 Ethnic Studies guiding list , the "Eight Outcomes of Ethnic Studies Teaching" unpredictably inserted, have no recent history in Ethnic Studies research or pedagogy.
 The removal of Ethnic Studies concepts, content, terms, and deleting the guiding principles from lessons represent a majoritarian perspective. For a stronger Ethnic Studies focus, the Ethnic Studies Guiding Principles should be the focus of this document and the "Eight Outcomes" should be removed. All sample lessons should be aligned to the Ethnic Studies Guiding Principles requiring that all lessons objectives and essential questions of the lessons be rewritten.
 While claiming to focus on the four racialized communities that comprise Ethnic Studies, the newly released draft excludes critical segments of the current Ethnic Studies community, namely Arab American and Pacific

Islanders. This is an inexcusable omission and we demand that both groups be re-inserted.
 The Native American segment of the Model Curriculum is poor quality and written from the traditional Euro-centric view . This is reflected in the use of terms, lessons, and the new change in the title from "Native American Studies" to "Native American Studies/Indigenous". "Native American" and not "Indigenous" is reflective of the First people of California and the United States. "Indigenous" is not added to Chicana/oLatina/o Studies and other racial ethnic communities who also hold indigenous heritage as well. The recommendation is to use Native American Studies frameworks and change the title to "Native American Studies/American Indian." "Native and Mexican foodways" lesson. It is recommended to move this lesson "back" to the Chicana/o Latina/o Studies section. Also the lesson about the Native Mascots needs to be situated in a California historical context.
 The lessons do not make explicit references to the contributions of racialized ethnic groups or reference the violence and systemic (institutional) inequities they face. For example, in the African American section , lesson plans lack an opportunity for students to analyze the systemic issues at the root of problems facing Black communities, like inadequate and unaffordable housing and police brutality. The recommendation is that more explicit and accurate language reflecting the historical racism and inequalities facing Native, Black, Brown, Asian American youth be used.
 The ghost writers who authored this document gave symbolic attention to the names of the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum authors and advisory members who were excluded from the process. It is recommended to work with Ethnic Studies teachers, especially Native American teachers before completing the next draft.
This document should not be published and approved by the IQC in this condition. As a former member, I am troubled that my name may indicate approval of this revision and this is far from true. We are willing and prepared to continue our work with the state of California to authenticate the voices of Ethnic Studies. Our children are the majority population, they should not have to capitulate to majoritarian voices who wish to decenter their stories or wait another 52 years for a course that centers their reality.
--

"If you don't stand for something you will fall for anything." Malcolm X

