From: Victoria Wong Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 10:47 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Support the inclusion of Arab American studies.
Dear Ethnic Studies Open Comment,
My name is Victoria Wong and I cofounded the Asian American Political Alliance (AAPA), which originated and popularized the term and concept of Asian American. AAPA went on to cofound the Third World Liberation Front that led the Third World Strike, culminating in Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley and nationwide. I can vouch that those of us veterans of the longest and bloodiest strike in UC history wholeheartedly support the original Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum draft because it supports our guiding values, principles and goals of a relevant, true and empowering education. We stand behind the original draft authors, composed of experienced and dedicated Third World teachers from our communities, to strengthen and refine the draft as necessary. We affirm that Pacific Islander Studies and Arab American Studies course outlines must be kept, along with West Asian American Studies representation including Palestine, as an essential part of Asian American Studies. We also stand in complete solidarity that Central American Studies must be expanded into a course outline under Chicanx/Latinx Studies. In "A Talk to Teachers," James Baldwin noted, "It is your responsibility to change society if you think of yourself as an educated person." You in the IQC have that choice before you on Aug. 13th, because what you decide to do will impact the future of race relations. If you accept the backward-thinking CDE Ethnic Studies draft that in essence perpetuates the white Eurocentric brainwashing, you will be setting back the march of progress to the pre-civil rights era. But if you instead put our youth and humanity's future as foremost in your consideration, break the chains of white supremacy in our schools. Emancipate our children from the evils of the past! Thank you.
Sincerely, Victoria Wong

