From: Chaim Amir Sent: Tuesday, August 11, 2020 8:45 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC)
Dear Members of the Instructional Quality Commission,
I appreciate some improvement in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), but I am deeply upset by the imposition of the offensive, one-sided political ideology that still remains in this proposed flawed draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. Here are my major concerns:
1. The few references to Jews are misleading and offensive: o Remove links to, and group advocacy of, anti-Israel pro-BDS sites o Include Mizrahi and other Jews of color o Add a definition of antisemitism to address various contemporary manifestations of antisemitism, including stereotyping and double standards against Jews and Jewish institutions from all parts of the political spectrum. o Add specific lesson materials on antisemitism as a form of racism and bigotry
2. The second draft does not prevent teaching offensive politically indoctrinating and anti-Israel elements from ESMC's first draft. o Add Elements of Balanced Curriculum from the LA Unified School District's Ethnic Studies Curriculum to provide solid ground rules for course development o Numerous sections of the ESMC need revision to expose students to "multiple and often competing sources of information" and ensure that "diverse viewpoints are respected."
I am a Californian parent who strongly supports fairness and equal treatment of people of all backgrounds.
One would hope that the education system would be a model for that, and use its power to encourage it and not the opposite.
I urge you to make significant further revisions to the ESMC to address these concerns. Please revise the Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC to use more precise and

inclusive terminology, to align with the ESMC Guidelines, to build bridges of intergroup understanding, and to ensure critical thinking. Then adjust the lessons and sample topics accordingly to match the revised principles.
Thank you,
Chaim Amir Sunnyvale, CA

