From: Alon C Sent: Wednesday, August 12, 2020 7:29 AM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Comments
Hi my name is Alon Chanukov, I live in Sa Francisco,
Instead of providing clear definitions for the terms mentioned in the "Guiding Values and Principles of Ethnic Studies", the ESMC includes footnotes for educators to delve deeper into the sources of such terms on their own. Sources mentioned include Maira and Shihade (2006) and Spade (2011), which lead educators to connect social movement principles with the BDS movement. This citation refers to Israel as a "Settler-colonial" state, connects anti-Zionism in the Middle East to anti-racism and anti-imperialist movements in the U.S., and attacks the CDE's partner organization, the ADL.
By not accurately defining these terms within the ESMC, educators will follow the terminology of these problematic references mentioned in the citations, ultimately promoting the hateful content originally removed from the first draft of the ESMC. (Page 9, Lines 179-194).
I also have an issue with Students will write a paper detailing certain events in American history that have led to Jewish and Irish Americans gaining racial privilege." (Page 6, Line 8166-67)
1.Targeted Jewish communities all across America are currently dealing with antisemitism through the spread of the belief that Jews are responsible for racial and financial inequalities in America. Such a chapter falsely representing the Jewish American narrative would only promote such antisemitic rhetoric and instill such ideology. 2. This prompt leads students to the assumption that all Jews are white, rather than taking into consideration the vast Mizrahi Jewish immigrant population that hailed from Arab countries as a result of persecution as well as Black Jews, Spanish Jews, Latino Jews, and Jews form North Africa. 3. Also, the reference to "white" Jews (those from Eastern Europe) does not mention that these very "white" Jews are still targeted today in the U.S. by white nationalists and other groups who carry out antisemitic violence. The victims of recent synagogue attacks were murdered because of the perpetrators' perceptions that they are non-white and are enemies of the "white race." Irish Americans today do not face this kind of violence by white supremacists.

