From: Rebecca Danzig Sent: Thursday, August 13, 2020 2:05 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Draft
My name is Rebecca Danzig. I am an incoming senior at Canyon Crest Academy in San Diego, and I am a Caribbean Ashkenazi Jew.
I have always advocated for the Jewish people and for education about Israel and about the importance of Israel to the Jewish people.
As a student in a public school with both Jews and non-Jews alike, I wholeheartedly support increasing education about the history of various ethnic groups in the USA, including with respect to their histories of persecution.
However, I continue to be alarmed by the draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). While the latest draft is an improvement on the previously proposed version, this latest version remains deficient.
Ethnic education should be inclusive and diverse, open for a range of thought and it should certainly not misinform or only encourage one point of view.
The current draft does not do that, including because it continues to downplay the challenges faced by the Jewish people, and our long history of dealing with persecution and oppression.
As one example, in Appendix A, the ESMC states that Jews "gain racial privilege" and compares the Jewish experience to that of the Irish in America. This, as in many other cases, downplays the Jewish experience with the unique hatred that was, and continues to be directed at Jews to this very day. Neither Irish nor Italians have to worry about being regularly targeted by bigots for hate crimes, as Jews do. The ESMC acts as if just as with the Irish, bigotry and discrimination towards Jews in America is a thing of the past ... and it does so, at a time when bigots target Jews for hate crimes in America in ever increasing numbers. Comparing Jews in California to the descendants of the Irish also disregards the diversity of the Jewish community (as the ESMC not ignores that all Jews are historically a Middle Eastern people, but it also ignores that numerous Jews in California are Mizrachi and Sephardic Jews, such as the large Jewish community in California that immigrated from Iran.

