From: Justin Feldman Sent: Thursday, August 13, 2020 2:45 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public Comment
Hello,
My name is Justin Feldman. As a concerned member of UCLA's Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Student Advisory Board and Mizrahi Jew of color, I am particularly concerned about my representation within California's Ethnic Studies curriculum.
My mother's family fled anti-Jewish persecution in Morocco as refugees in 1956 and found safety along with hundreds of thousands of other MENA Jewish refugees in Israel before immigrating to the U.S. We continue to experience antisemitism and xenophobic racism despite our contributions as MENA immigrants in America.
I urge CA Ethnic Studies to promote multiple perspectives. Leaving out the Middle Eastern American Jewish experience is antisemitism. 2018 California Hate Crime Statistics noted that Anti-Jewish events increased by over twenty percent while Anti-Muslim bias events decreased by more than forty percent. As a Jewish person who has experienced/witnessed religiously motivated hate, I believe our students deserve to learn about both Islamophobia and Antisemitism in an ethnic studies framework.
I would like to see the next draft of the curriculum include the lesson plan, "Antisemitism and Middle Eastern-American Jews" produced by the organization, JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa, as it will provide students with high-quality instruction on contemporary issues of antisemitism, bigotry, and the Middle Eastern-American Jewish experience.
Thank you,
Justin
Justin Feldman    B.A. Political Science & Middle Eastern Studies University of California, Los Angeles, 2020 Research Assistant, Center for Middle East Development | Co-Chair & Student Assistant, UCLA Nazarian Center for Israel Studies SAC | UCLA Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Student Advisory Board | CAC WorldFest | StandWithUs Emerson Fellow | Students Supporting Israel National Committee

