From: Gayle Romasanta <gayleromasanta@ Sent: Thursday, August 13, 2020 1:28 PM To: Ethnic Studies <EthnicStudies@cde.ca.gov> Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public comment Agenda Item 2.A.2. (8/13/20 meeting)
My name is Gayle Romasanta, a parent of four children who attend or will be attending public schools, writer and Filipino American community member based out Stockton, California. I am responding to the Ethnic Studies CDE recommendations draft Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
I urge you to include Arab American studies inclusive of Palestine and Pacific Islander history in the draft moving forward as the original draft included. I also ask you to reinstate the original expert authors that were convened to put together the ethic studies model curriculum.
I urge you to also reinstate the book "Journey for Justice: The Life of Larry Itliong," by Dr. Dawn Mabalon and Gayle Romasanta as a resource in the Filipino American history section. I co-wrote this book with leading Filipino American historian, Dr. Dawn Mabalon. This book is the FIRST book about Larry Itliong, Filipino American farm labor leader, the UFW assistant director under director Cesar Chavez. This book is also the first illustrated children's book about Filipino American history. This book was thoughtfully researched and vetted by UFW journalists, academics, K-12 teachers and librarians. It was a community-wide project to bring this book to fruition, since Filipino Americans were left out of the history of the Farm labor movement for too long. Filipino American's started the Great Delano Grape Strike and I urge you to include the resources necessary to illustrate one of our leaders and the racism and oppression that Filipinos suffered for decades on the West Coast and Alaska.
I also urge you to include Filipino songs in the Filipino American history section, songs and/or poetry written by Filipinos to further illustrate this point. I ask for a fair representation of this movement that included so many ethnicities, and especially Filipino Americans who have not been included in this narrative.
Respectfully,
Gayle Romasanta

