From: David Meir-Levi Sent: Thursday, August 13, 2020 11:30 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] comments on 2nd draft of Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Honorable Committee Members and Educational Leaders,
I know that many have addressed specific issues of concern regarding this revised Ethnic Studies Curriculum. I most sincerely encourage all of you to take careful note of these concerns. My comments below reflect my 30 years of experience as a professional educator in California, elsewhere in the USA, and abroad. I address what I perceive to be the broad educational failing of both this and the previous rendition of the Ethnic Studies Curriculum.
The over-arching problem with both the original draft of the ESMC and the second draft is that neither is actually a curriculum. Both are activist agendas for advocacy on behalf of a select group of ethnic minorities and against other minorities. It is indoctrination, not education.
The authors' approach to the definitions and descriptions of ethnic minorities in California is one-sided, and focuses on political indoctrination instead of education. The content advances a very narrow political agenda that labels some groups as victims, and others as victimizers. It misrepresents both Arabs and Jews, underrepresents several significant Asian minorities, and stresses throughout the need to radicalize students toward specific political causes on behalf of other minorities. Far from being inclusive and educational, it is divisive, pitting one minority against another; and instead of educating toward tolerance and inclusion, it indoctrinates

toward, and encourages activism against, targeted minorities, using false, vitriolic, propagandistic diatribe.
The inclusion of an inaccurate propagandistic attack against an American ally, in this case, Israel, defies comprehension. The politics of a foreign state, while surely open to critique, has no relevance for a curriculum of California Ethnic Studies. Ethnic studies education has been compromised in favor of political diatribe. The inclusion of this irrelevant material may reveal a hidden agenda.
As a teacher and school principal for thirty years before my retirement, I can say with confidence that were this curriculum presented to me, I would reject it and seek disciplinary action against its authors, even if the content were free of the flaws and failings that others have so effectively brought to your attention.
David Meir-Levi
3760 el Centro Street
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650-269-7021

