From: JEFFREY CARMEL Sent: Sunday, August 16, 2020 3:10:11 PM To: Superintendent; [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC
I am grateful to the California Department of Education for its thoughtful revisions to the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). This is a much improved draft. Thank you for ensuring the removal of the unacceptable and biased content in the first draft of the model curriculum that included antisemitic tropes and lessons praising the BDS movement, divisive and Marxist content, radical politicalization of contemporary race issues, and an absence of appropriate role models such as Dr. King, Sen. John Lewis, Justice Thurgood Marshall, etc. The proposed curriculum makes no mention of the Black community's historic working partnership with Jews but instead elevates the voices of those who perpetuate anti-Jewish views. And by celebrating Marxism and demonizing capitalism, the curriculum stunts the ability of our youth, particularly those of color, to thrive in America's robust economy. The tone of the curriculum is much improved though there are still problematic areas such as the inclusion of Education as War as a reference text. Inclusiveness and racial harmony and racial pride are far more desirable messages than those of revolution and divisiveness. I was also shocked that the day before the IQC hearings, on Friday last, there was last minute reinsertion of Arabic studies, grouped with, of all choices, Pacific Islanders. And this was to the exclusion of Jews, Christians, Copts, Bahai, and other persecuted minorities from the Middle East and North Africa, a population that exceeds that of Arab Americans in California and has been a far more persecuted minority. Excluding their story, while including the story of their persecutors in their native lands, would be a real disservice to this very large group of California students. There is still time to get it right. Please consider the above comments before a final edition of the ESMC is approved. Thank you,
Jeffrey A. Carmel, M.D. Adjunct Professor Emeritus Stanford University School of Medicine Portola Valley, CA 94028-7464

