From: Nirvair Singh Sent: Monday, August 17, 2020 8:25 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Sikh inclusion in Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dearall,
Thank you for giving me an opportunity during the IQC meeting on Thursday, August 13th, to submit my testimony requesting inclusions on Sikhism in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum in review.
Here is a text copy of my testimony in reference to Agenda item 2.A.
My name is Nirvair Singh and I am a Sikh living in California. I have received my college education in this state and lived here for the last 32 years. I am a software engineer and a parttime community college teacher. My wife and I have raisedtwo children in the Bay Area. Both attended public schools in Cupertino Union District and both complained about the lack of coverage of Sikhism in their classes. They are now in their twenties, but they still wish that they had better school experience. TheEthnic Studies Model Curriculum offers a very timely and historic opportunity to create specific content that can fill the unfortunate gaps in our education. Joining the 1220 fellow Californian Sikhs who have signed a petition, I urge you to consider meaningfulinclusions in the curriculum. Sikhs have been in California for well over a century. We form a vibrant part of our society and economy. We deserve these inclusions.
The email petition submitted by the Sikh Coalition and the Jakara Movement, signed by 1220 Sikh community members, supports more meaningful inclusion of Sikhism in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum, through a lesson plan which teachers can use to teachabout the positive and rich contributions by Sikhs in California over the past 125 years. The Sikh American experience should not be reduced to a narrative which only portrays the community through the lens of victimization post 9/11. It is clear that theIQC is willing to take this approach given the recent

commitment to include lesson plans on the Pacific Islander experience and Arab American Studies. The Sikh community's requests should not continue to be ignored.
With sincere regards, Nirvair Singh

