From: nina gilshteyn Sent: Monday, August 24, 2020 6:14 PM To: CFIRD Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Concern with curriculum
Corrections listed below
Hello to whom it may concern,
My name is Nina Nechama Gilshteyn. I am am a honors student at UCLA whose majoring in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology and is minoring in Biomedical research. I am privileged to be a member of Tau Sigma National Honor Society, Mortar Board Senior Honor Society, and Golden Key Internarional Honour Society.
I want to use my privilege for good when I say that I am appalled by how the government is isolating and targeting white-skinned Jewish Americans in a very racist concept of white privilege.
I would like to have a discussion with, and present information to people who could enact change on this racist curriculum.
I am not a hypocritical southern white person when I say this is racist. My lineage and I are more simar to AHANAs than southern whites.
Please connect me to someone important who will listen to me.
Humble regards, Nina Nechama Gilshteyn UCLA Honors Collegium Tau Sigma Honor Society Mortar Board Senior Honor Soceity Golden Key Honor Society
On Mon, Aug 24, 2020, 6:10 PM nina gilshteyn wrote: Hello to whom it may concern,
My name is Nina Nechama Gilshteyn. I am am a honors student at UCLA whose majoring in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology and is minoring in Biomedical research. I am privileged to a member of Tau Sigma National Honor Society, Mortar Board Senior Honor Society, and Golden Key Internarional Honour Society.
I want to use my privilege for good. I am appalled that the government is isolating and targeting white-skinned Jewish Americans in a very racist concept of white privilege.
I would like to have a discussion and present information with people who could enact change on this racist curriculum.

I am not a hypocritical southern white person when I say this is racist. My lineage and I are more simar to AHANAs than southern whites.
Please connect me to someone important who will listen to me.
Humble regards, Nina Nechama Gilshteyn UCLA Honors Collegium Tau Sigma Honor Society Mortar Board Senior Honor Soceity Golden Key Honor Society

