From: David Javidzad Sent: Wednesday, August 5, 2020 11:31 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC Members,
I am submitting the following message as my comment on the ESMC. I applaud the CDE for making important changes to the ESMC, and appreciate its hard work during this time.
While this new draft is a step in the right direction, I urge you to make further changes to address shortcomings that remain in the curriculum.
The primarily scary thing about anti-semitism is how fast the narrative changes in a context where Jews are usually accepted, to make the general public consider Jews the source of all evil and the scapegoat for all societal ills.
The scary thing about anti-semitism is how convincing the conspiracy theories are, because most people don't know much about Jews.
Anti-semitism is considering the Jews to be whatever is repugnant to the prevailing idea of morality. In Western Europe, Jews were the communists. In communist parts of Europe, Jews were the evil capitalists. In 19th century Iran, Jews were unclean and disloyal. In 15th century Spain, Jews were anti-Christian. In medieval Europe, a common belief was that Jews hated Christianity so much, they killed Christian children.
Today, we've deemed imperialism, apartheid, and genocide the most egregious societal issues, and what do we know? The undying tumor of anti-semitism has been slapping those words on Jews for the past 30 years, giving birth to a new era of Jewish scapegoating for world's worst ills.
Jews who are upset right now are not claiming to be the most relevant oppressed class in the US. We are not denying that in many cases, we have privilege. Many Jews are white and do not deal with bad looks or overt prejudices. Jews are not arguing that there is a systemic bend against them. Jews fear sudden,
sweeping misinformation that convinces liberal and conservative alike, that the Jew is the opposite of morality in
the world. Jews fear intellectual justifications of Jew-hatred, as well as ignorant, anti-intellectual ideas of Jew-hatred. Jews fear far-right white supremacists shooting up synagogues, as well as radical left intellectuals teaching college students that Jews are responsible for all harmful effects of capitalism and are European imperialists.
15 senior officials in the Nazi party signed Hitler's final solution. More than half of them were PhDs. Unlike other forms of discrimination, which should not be discounted, anti-semitism reaches the ears of the most powerful, convinces the passions of the most intelligent, and convinces the minds of the most people, that Jews are their problem. Historically, the only time sympathies arise is for the 20 years following a Jewish genocide. Then the hateful tumor of anti-semitism finds a way to come right back into action, affecting the hearts and minds of the masses.
Most people who know anything about anti-semitism think it was this crazy white supremacist idea originating in Nazi Germany, there was the Holocaust, then Jews got their own country and got rich and are fine now. It's time to change that story. Anti-semitism started in the days before Christ and, as mentioned above, manifests itself as scapegoating Jews for the current ills plaguing society.
Please do not train our children to be anti-semitic. Please do not allow these tropes to become commonplace in educational environments. Please be careful when approaching the line between education and indoctrination.
Best regards,
David Javidzad

