CDE Note: This comment also included the attachment provided in the comment, "8-6-20 Group Attachment"
From: Eileen Ingenthron Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2020 4:51 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Assemblymember.Wicks@assembly.ca.gov; nancy.skinner@sen.ca.gov; Robert.Gammon@sen.ca.gov Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC Members, I am submitting the attached document as my comment on the ESMC. I applaud the CDE for making important changes to the ESMC, and appreciate their hard work during this time. While this new draft is a step in the right direction, I urge you to make further changes to address shortcomings that remain in the curriculum.
A lot of thoughtful, educated, considerate work has gone into the document attached below. Honorable people want to insure that all students see themselves represented positively in ethnic studies curriculum, that multiple perspectives are welcomed and factually presented and that particular philosophies not be expressed as truth.
What I want for students spending valuable time with an ethnic studies curriculum is to see themselves, each and everyone, in the 'study of us', to learn about cultures and groups represented in the United States and globally and, having learned about and embraced the wonder of humanity in all its diversity, find areas of interest for their passion and energy. What I don't want is curriculum that seems, in some places, to prescribe how students should think and what causes are worthy of their attention, as in curriculum that encourages teachers to "develop solidarity and create linkages" with anti-Zionism, BDS, and anti-Israel narratives. Why would this be explicitly stated in an ethnic studies curriculum? What if there is another side to the story? Why would a teacher need to develop solidarity with students through this means. Students will come to an area of interest and get passionate about becoming active because it matters to them. They want a teacher who listens, supports, and facilitates discovery, not one who identifies the path.
I am an educator. I come to my expressed thoughts from 25 years in classrooms in Oakland Unified School District, working with students intensely from grades 7-12 and from mentoring new teachers. Developing curriculum is a sacred task. Teachers will interpret it and students will experience it. The Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum needs to honor all cultures and experiences and in so doing bring respect and belonging to the students who will study it. I just hope the revision will do that.
Eileen Ingenthron Oakland, CA

