From: Moti Gur Sent: Wednesday, August 5, 2020 8:26 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comment on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC Members, I am submitting the attached document as my comment on the ESMC. I applaud the CDE for making important changes to the ESMC, and appreciate their hard work during this time. While this new draft is a step in the right direction, I urge you to make further changes to address shortcomings that remain in the curriculum.
I believe that it is essential to teach the True Fact about history to understand today. The fat is that Israel was a country with kings, capital city, army, borders, taxes, temple, religion, holidays, laws and more until the Roman came 2000 years ago destroy the temple and killed many of the Jewish people until most of the Jews that could fled their country to different parts of the world, where they faced persecution, In Khaybar Arabia 626 AD Mohammed asked the Jews to convert to Islam. When they refused, he beheads all the Jewish men and took the women and kids as slaves. On March 31,1492 Quine Isabella ordered the expulsion of the Jews from Spain. During the WW2, Nazi Germany Hitler took over 6 million Jews from all over Europe into the gas chambers. And much more.... Although there was always Jewish present in Israel, the last 200 years Jews from all over are coming back to their ancient homeland Israel and build it up, on May 14, 1948 Israel declared its independence. Israel is the only Jewish state in the world, Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel is the only country in the Middle East where women have rights, human rights, gay rights, freedom of speech and freedom of religion. Israel surrender 21 Arab Muslim countries that bigger than Israel 800 times, The Arab countries vow to destroy the tiny democracy, the only Jewish country in the world, calling Israel Infidel. Jews all over the world continue to face even today Anti-Semitism, and Anti-Israel.
Thank you
Moti Gur
Los Angeles California

