CDE Note: This comment also included the attachment provided in the comment, "8-6-20 Group Attachment"
From: Kim Green Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2020 9:38 AM To: Ethnic Studies; Nicole.Restmeyer@asm.ca.gov; assemblymember.chiu@assembly.ca.gov; scott.wiener@sen.ca.gov Subject: [EXTERNAL] CA's proposed ethnic studies curriculum normalizes judeophobia
hi, elected reps. please consider the attached statement as you review the proposed CA ethnic studies curriculum. i'll say it baldly: as a product of CA public schools, a current parent of two SFUSD public school students (for 12 years) and a jewish american, i am HORRIFIED that we have to continue fighting for our government to acknowledge our humanity in 2020.
the fact that this hate-filled, unbalanced, grossly oversimplified and criminally ahistorical document is borne of our supposed allies on the left makes it that much worse. that it is proposed in an era when global judeophobia and anti-jewish violence is skyrocketing is unconcionable; a visible orthodox jew was stabbed (again!) in NYC just last week! we are being thrown off rooftops, chopped up with machetes, and pushed out of schools and campuses (see: https://www.instagram.com/jewishoncampus/ ).
what will it take to be seen? to be heard? to make the socjus left acknowledge that anti-israelism is antisemites' favorite calling card and best way to continue their attack on us?
were any actual CA jews of the diaspora -- mizrahi, sephardi, ashkenazi, beta israelim - even invited to take part in this process? or were we summarily excluded in favor of (clearly, unequivocally problematic) ideologues?
why are so many precepts of an extremist ideology - critical theory/postmodernism - allowed to undergird this proposed curriculum unquestioned and unexamined?
you have the power to move the narrative toward nuance, discovery, humanity and truth-seeking as you navigate toward equity and justice for all CA people.
the world is complex. disputes between peoples and governments as well. theories that attempt to explain it without nuance, empiricism, humanity or historicity have a name: religious zealotry. there is no place for religious or ideological fundamentalism in CA public schools!
please consider this plea to revise these guidelines so that they do their needed work for social justice for all peoples without erasing jews and other middle east indigenous minorities and diasporic peoples in the process.
frankly, i cannot believe we're here in 2020; i wrote last year when this first came up, and here i am again, horrified that you, our reps and those chosen by them to write this curriculum, still don't see the kind of hate that's being normalized and enshrined here.
one more thing before you write me (and my people) off as noisy/pushy/clannish types who only care about our own: my children have attended high-poverty, predominantly Black and Brown schools in SF

their entire lives. they have encountered jew hatred on many occasions; it has become completely normalized on the intersectional left. as we have repeatedly seen around the world, it holds within it the power of real violence. yet...we tried to read the room. we raised small voices but shrank back when we were told it was "not our time."
now is our time, because now i know we will never - NEVER - be given our time. we have to take it.
best,
kim green san francisco, CA mom of 2 public school kids product of CA public education

