From: Kim Green Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2020 12:22 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: letter protesting antisemitism in proposed ethnic studies curriculum
addendum:
happening today to jewish students across the country and in CA because of the normalization of antisemitism/antiisraelism/antizionism (which are, for all intents and purposes, identical):
USC student government VP harassed and forced out for being jew (on ludicrous critical theory grounds) https://www.facebook.com/rose.ritch.7/posts/3529165573771270
more stories - almost daily https://www.instagram.com/jewishoncampus/
jews must be allowed to qualify, judge, outline, contest, discuss and ultimately DETERMINE the boundaries of our own identities, just like every other vulnerable minority group this curriculum is designed to center.
thank you.
best, kg
On Thu, Aug 6, 2020 at 9:24 AM Kim Green wrote: hi, there. please consider the attached statement as you review the proposed CA ethnic studies curriculum. i'll say it baldly: as a product of CA public schools, a current parent of two SFUSD public school students (for 12 years) and a jewish american, i am HORRIFIED that we have to continue fighting for our government to acknowledge our humanity in 2020.
the fact that this hate-filled, unbalanced, grossly oversimplified and criminally ahistorical document is borne of our supposed allies on the left makes it that much worse. that it is proposed in an era when global judeophobia and anti-jewish violence is skyrocketing is unconcionable.
you have the power to move the narrative toward nuance, discovery, humanity and truth.
the world is complex. disputes between peoples as well. theories that attempt to explain it without nuance, empiricism, humanity or historicity have a name: religious zealotry. there is no place for religious or ideological fundamentalism in CA public schools!
please consider this plea to revise these guidelines so that they do their needed work for social justice for all peoples without erasing jews and other middle east indigenous minorities and diasporic peoples in the process.
kim green san francisco, CA

mom of 2 public school kids product of CA public education

