From: Eileen Shavelson Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2020 8:38 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Outrageous anti semitism endorsed by CA schools
Hello Here's the thing
#CheckYourGoyishePrivelege
#ROSEPARKSTEIN
The "Palestinian" cause is the biggest con job in history and the only reason it has been allowed to flourish in CA is Arab Muslim money that has bought out CA universities , and the concern over gas prices .
Every other ethnic group that gets press, and ethnic studies depts ,fails to recognize that they are WORLD MAJORITIES, not minorities .
1) Hispanics have a whole continent , SOUTH AMERICA , if they want things fully their way, and they also have long history of being brutal conquerors and colonizers. For instance , 500 years of the Spanish Inquisition . Separate out indigenous peoples of the Americas whom the Spanish married ( and raped) into. 2) Africa is a whole continent , where btw Blacks sold each other as slaves . This is a place where Blacks should be helping develop , not demanding to be considered a minority here in the US with special privileges .This goes for all of the rest of the world, each group should be fixing their own origin countries, so the world catches up with the US. This is in stark contrast to the BLM agenda, which is undermining America, and targeting American Jews. One cannot call themselves a civil rights organization whilst demeaning other ethnic groups .Also Blacks were compensated for slavery well over 100 years ago, with 40 acres and a mule. 3) Chinese number 1.6 Billion people . This is not a minority. Asians have a whole continent where they can live according to their own traditions, which have been lost bc of their own regimes. For instance I personally know more about the I Ching, Chinese Medicine , Chinese Astrology , and Feng shui than Many people in China who are not allowed to practice their own culture. Blaming and shaming Americans who have had no hand in this is absurd , unfair, and it's time it stopped. 4) Muslims have 22 countries where they can practice their religion which oppresses their own women, gays etc. Islamaphobia is not an actual phenomena but a political weapon that keeps those attacked by Islamists from speaking the truth and speaking up.Silencing is actually sharia, so this process actually forces Americans to go against their own first amendment to speak truth in order to appease Muslims, which is unacceptable. Also one cannot co-opt a mental health diagnosis and use it politically . I know as I Have an MS in Clinical Psychology. Fearing the violent agenda of Islamists is a healthy response to a dangerous situation . 5) Jews have one very small country that the above cultures obscure when they claim minority status and special programs and privileges for themselves .Jews are 2 % of the population of the US and 50% of the hate crimes are directed toward Jews. Israel is the indigenous homeland of the Jewish people with a 3,800 year history and no amount of posturing will change that 6) Native Americans are the only other significant minority that gets very little attention bc the other groups have more money to get press agents. 7) Since some Pacific Islanders have a history of actual cannibalism they can't always stand as a group that has completely victimized and marginalized. They have a rich culture but should not be grouped with Asians or Native Americans . 8) Arabs were for the most part migrant workers and renters ( except when they murdered Jews to take their property) in Israel. They have no indigenous claim to ANY of the land , especially in Judea , where Jews are from ( Arabs are from Arabia) . This should be simple to teach to first graders, yet it is not and has been hijacked by political,agendas of the people's I delineated above. 9) after COVID there should be absolutely no special programs for any ethnicity group that shames white children

or adults for their privileges. Everyone is hurting and it's time this dangerous anti American agenda stop . There was a time where people came here and we're grateful for the opportunity to just be here. THAT IS AMERICAN . Eileen Shavelson

