From: JEFFREY CARMEL Sent: Friday, August 7, 2020 10:33 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove Political Dogma from Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear IQC Members,
As a California Resident, having attended public school in California, UC Berkeley as an undergraduate, UCLA as a medical student, Stanford School of Medicine as a post doctoral student, having two daughters who attended California public schools and universities and 10 grandchildren in California schools, and having taught for nearly four decades at Stanford, I wish to voice concerns regarding the revised ESMC.
Though much of the document is fair and unbiased, there are portions of it that promote Marxism, Communism and Socialism in a way that would dismantle our American way of life. Revolution, mentioned over 50 times, is promoted. Communism is lauded, ignoring the massacres perpetrated by Communist regimes. Further, Capitalism is still described in Draft 2 as a "form of power and oppression," alongside "patriarchy," "racism," and "white supremacy." Reference is made to textbooks authored by Marxists such as Gramsci, Parsons, and Hobsbawm in Appendix A.
Also problematic are The "Guiding Values and Principles" of the ESMC that directly reference and are partly based on specific pages from a book called Education at War. (Maira and Shihade 2006.) The relevant section of Education at War states, "Schools are battlefields where war is waged..." Is this what we wish to teach our impressionable young children?
Also problematic, Maira and Shihade 2006 portrays Israel as a "settler-colonial' state terminology which erases over 3,000 years of Jewish history, identity, and rights in the historic home of the Jewish people. It also falsely accuses Israel of "annexation of the West Bank and Gaza" in 1967. In fact, Israel did not annex these territories after the 1967 War or at any time.
While it may have been unintentional, it is deeply troubling that the very Guiding Values and Principles of the ESMC reference a book which promotes "solidarity and linkages" with antiZionism and BDS. The guiding values and principles should be revised to ensure that they cannot be used to justify promoting such hateful agendas in the classroom.
Since the California ESMC is mandated to be apolitical, references such as the above need to be removed.
Sincerely,
Jeffrey A. Carmel, M.D. Professor Emeritus Stanford University School of Medicine

