From: Kim Emerson Sent: Saturday, January 9, 2021 12:34 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] No Critical Race Theory in CA schools
Hello CA State Board of Education, Californians rejected the far left direction of Governor Newsom and many state legislators, when it voted resoundingly against Proposition 16 (the proposed constitutional amendment which would have reversed the 1996 voter approved ban on affirmative action) at the November 3, 2020 election. At least 57% of Californians believe that allowing preference in hiring, contracts and college admissions based on race or ethnicity, is inequitable and actually promotes racial tension. However, the State Board of Education (SBE) was undeterred by the results of the November 3, 2020 election, and the demise of Proposition 16. The SBE member's leftist ideology is attempting to indoctrinate our children with the far left and racially divisive perspective of "Critical Race Theory" as it is currently working to add this theory to California's K-12 curriculum. In its "ESMC Third Field Review" the SBE relies in large part on the work of Christine Sleeter, a far left, social justice activist, who is "angry" (by her own words) at the United States. Sleeter overlooks the positive aspects of our countries' history and accuses ALL Americans of systemic racism, as she proposes the solution to the wrongs of our forefathers is to teach our innocent children today that if their skin color is white, they are oppressors and perpetrators of racism (whether they know it, or not), and if they are not white, they are victims of racism and oppressed (whether they have ever felt oppressed, or not). This "theory" encourages racial discrimination, breeds racial tension, punishes and teaches self-deprecation in white children, while teaching non-white children that they are victims of those with white skin. The sample lesson plans in the curriculum focus on only leftist and democrat role models of ethnic diversity,
and ignores minorities with conservative ideology. A viewing of the "Uncle Tom" documentary or the work of Candace Owens, Larry Elder, Ben Carson, or the late great Herman Cane, would be a good addition
to a well rounded and unbiased ethnic studies curriculum, but such conservative sources are ignored perpetuating the biased, leftist agenda of the SBE. The proposed Third Field Review curriculum also glorifies leftist activism, such as Black Lives Matter, which is itself a political organization while the curriculum seeks to exclude sources with "political bias" - with the antilaw enforcement assumption of police brutality, and without any recognition that law enforcement may have had justification for its actions in a particular case - with the assignment requiring the student to take on the leftist position of enacting change or engaging in protest. The leftist bias is inexcusable. It is NOT "teaching tolerance" it is teaching hatred towards our country and its law enforcement - and hatred towards non-leftists again increasing the national divide. In short, the Critical Race Theory curriculum proposed by the SBE, is itself racist, it does not unify, it does not empower, and it would actually harm children.
Kim Emerson Granite Bay, CA

