From: Ruth Parker Sent: Sunday, January 10, 2021 3:48 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fw: Senator Hawley Slams Publishing Company From Dropping Book Deal Exposing Big Tech
I was thrown out of a political science class at SFSU a year ago because I objected to the professor's characterization of conservatives as racist, homophobic and anti women. There were other negative images on his list but I can't remember all of them. When I asked him to present a more honest description of what conservatives believe he shut me down and told me I was no longer welcome to attend his class and further that I was banned from ever again crossing the threshold of his classroom. That conservatives are evil is what is being taught in many (possibly most) college classes in America. I am not on Facebook or Twitter but I am an avid reader of books so the withdrawal from the contract for the publication of this book has hit me hard. I wonder if this is legal? Further I wonder whether the threat of prosecution for the telephone conversation Trump had with the governor of Georgia is legal. When someone secretly tapes a telephone conversation for the purpose of harming the unknowing person on the other end of the line it is considered a tortious felony. The person who should be prosecuted is the governor who committed this crime. Does anyone think about the legal implications of this blatant bias against conservatives? ----- Forwarded Message ----From: Patriot Headline To: "[email redacted] Sent: Sunday, January 10, 2021, 03:01:36 PM PST Subject: Senator Hawley Slams Publishing Company From Dropping Book Deal Exposing Big Tech
Featured Today
| Senator Hawley Slams Publishing Company From Dropping Book
Deal Exposing Big Tech

Read the Alert >>
Recently Featured
|What Do The Capitol Hill Riots Mean For The Future Of
GOP?
|Giant Vagina Sculpture Angers Conservatives In Brazil

|George W. Bush Blames Republican "Falsehoods" For
Capitol Crisis
|Twitter, Facebook Lock Trump's Accounts Amid Capitol
Riots
You Might Like
Visit Patriot Headline
(c) 2020 Patriot Headline. All Rights Reserved. Protected by copyright laws of the United States and treaties. This Newsletter may only be used pursuant to the subscription agreement. Any reproduction, copying, or redistribution, (electronic or otherwise) in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without express written permission. Nothing in this e-mail should be considered personalized investment advice. Although our employees may answer your general customer service questions, they are not licensed under securities laws to address your particular investment situation. No communication by our employees to you should be deemed as personalized investment advice. We expressly forbid our writers from having a financial interest in any security recommended to our readers. All of our employees and agents must wait 24 hours after on-line publication or 72 hours after the mailing of printed-only publication prior to following an initial recommendation. Any investments recommended in this letter should be made only after consulting with your investment advisor and only after reviewing the prospectus or financial statements of the company. The information presented here is for public educational purposes only. MATERIAL CONNECTION DISCLOSURE: You should assume that the sender of this email has an affiliate relationship and/or another material connection to the persons or businesses mentioned in or linked to from this message and may receive commissions from purchases you make on subsequent web sites. You should never rely solely on information contained in this

email to evaluate the product or service being endorsed. Always exercise due diligence before purchasing any product or service.
Patriot Headline [address redacted] Fort Mill South Carolina 29715
United States

