From: Colin Gallagher Sent: Thursday, January 14, 2021 5:27 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Third Field Review Comments (Pay Close Attention)
From: Colin Gallagher, Parent of a High Schooler [address redacted] Monterey, CA
I understand that part of what you propose to include is a method of critiquing oppression in history which would include terminology such as, but not limited to, "patriarchy, cisheteropatriarchy, exploitative economic systems, ableism, ageism, anthropocentrism, xenophobia, misogyny, antisemitism, antiblackness, anti-indigeneity, Islamophobia, and transphobia."
Your proposals of such ridiculous and demeaning terms to be included in our curriculum is an assault on our students and on our families. It proposes the use of the above words to bully and marginalize our ancestors and to demean all those who built the United States of America up and made it great. And simply because you cannot see and understand that which I am telling you does not make it any less true. If I see or hear even one such word from your proposals to lecture students on "patriarchy, cisheteropatriarchy, exploitative economic systems, ableism, ageism, anthropocentrism, xenophobia, misogyny, antisemitism, anti-blackness, anti-indigeneity, Islamophobia, and transphobia" in the curriculum of history or any other subject, I will file civil rights and harassment complaints against the State as well as against the public school system where my child is in attendance. I will put the Department of Justice's Civil Rights division and my own lawyers to good use.
Did you think you could get away with turning out schools into Communist sympathizer mills?
You will discard this and other proposals like it. That is what you will do.
I will be watching in the school, and I will ask my child to report back to me for signs of this unwelcome terminology and marginalizing sort of revisionist history. If he detects any he will let me know and the State will be hearing from my lawyer.
Respectfully,

Colin Gallagher

