From: [email redacted] Sent: Saturday, January 16, 2021 2:26 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments for Ethnic Studies
In Chapter 3, Page 6 Bottom Footnote: It says that LGBTQ+ throughout this document is intended to represent inclusive and ever-changing spectrum identities.
Please add a statement in the Ethnic Studies Framework that explicitly states, "Pedophilia can NEVER be one of these LGBTQ+ identities on the ever-changing spectrum"
In Ch 3, Page 8, on line 164, it states: An "inquiry-based approach to ethnic studies invites students to become active participants in the learning process".
Please add a statement which says, "Pornography or explicit materials (either written or illustrated) can NEVER be part of school curriculum for any grade levels when it comes to identity inquiry, exploration, discovery or experimentation. Sado Masoquism, Sexual Restraint, Anal Play, Kinky Sex, Bondage, or any type of sexual role playing will not be allowed for school assignments in literary or visual inquiry-based learning approaches."
In Ch 3 on Page 10 on line 205-207 it states: "It will often be appropriate for ethnic studies courses to include a community engagement project that allows for students to use their knowledge and voice to affect social transformation in the their community"
Please add a statement which clarifies this statement such as: "To assure a safe school climate, one particular political party or political issue should not be presented as superior over another. For example, some students may choose pro-life projects, while others choose prochoice. Some students may choose first amendment rights, fair civil discourse, religious liberties, while others may choose reproductive justice, health care, defunding police, etc. An inclusive school climate for varied views, whether conservative or liberal should be celebrated."
Ch 3 - page 4 on line 65-66 - Community Ethnic studies teaching and learning is meant to serve as a bridge between educational space/institution and community
A line needs to be added in this: "No outside agency will be allowed access to students from public schools without parent notification and consent."
Ch 3 - Page 6 - bottom notation: "The usage of LGBTQ+ throughout this document is intended to represent an inclusive and ever-changing spectrum and understanding of identities.
Remove: "EVER-CHANGING SPECTRUM"..... . This is EXTREMISM and INDOCTRINATION.... Unlimited genders and Unlimited Sexual Orientations is EXTREMISM and should not be taught in schools period. Open-Ended Identities should be taken out of Ethnic Studies.

