From: John Hobbs Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2021 7:35 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public comment on proposed ESMC
Hello,
Please add my name, as a parent of two soon to be school age children, who opposes the proposed curriculum(ESMC). In its "ESMC Third Field Review" the SBE relies in large part on the work of Christine Sleeter, a far left, social justice activist, who is "angry" (by her own words) at the United States. Sleeter overlooks the positive aspects of our countries' history and accuses ALL Americans of systemic racism, as she proposes the solution to the wrongs of our forefathers is to teach our innocent children today that if their skin color is white, they are oppressors and perpetrators of racism (whether they know it, or not), and if they are not white, they are victims of racism and oppressed (whether they have ever felt oppressed, or not). This "theory" encourages racial discrimination, breeds racial tension, punishes and teaches selfdeprecation in white children, while teaching non-white children that they are victims of those with white skin. The sample lesson plans in the curriculum focus on only leftist and democrat role models of ethnic diversity, and ignores minorities with conservative ideology. A viewing of the "Uncle Tom" documentary or the work of Candace Owens, Larry Elder, Ben Carson, or the late great Herman Cane, would be a good addition to a well rounded and unbiased ethnic studies curriculum, but such conservative sources are ignored perpetuating the biased, leftist agenda of the SBE. The proposed Third Field Review curriculum also glorifies leftist activism, such as Black Lives Matter, which is itself a political organization while the curriculum seeks to exclude sources with "political bias" - with the anti-law enforcement assumption of police brutality, and without any recognition that law enforcement may have had justification for its actions in a particular case - with the assignment requiring the student to take on the leftist position of enacting change or engaging in protest. The leftist bias is inexcusable. It is NOT "teaching tolerance" it is teaching hatred towards our country and its law enforcement - and hatred towards non-leftists - again increasing the national divide. In short, the Critical Race Theory curriculum proposed by the SBE, is itself racist, it does not unify, it does not empower, and it would actually harm children.
Sincerely,
John Hobbs

