From: Ralph Moran Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2021 1:28 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Third Field Review
I am against any new required Ethnic Studies course that divides the students in any classroom by race (Critical Race Theory). Assuming that every human who is born in the US with ancestry that leads to skin that looks white is racist against US citizens who have white skin.
I was born to parents whose ancestors immigrated from England, Ireland, France, Canada and the Mikmaq Indian Tribe of Canada. The Irish were treated poorly when they started arriving in the US.
In high school, my father had a difficult time with his building contracting business and lost money for many years. Since our family was poor, I pulled myself up from my bootstraps by going to college and ultimately getting a Masters in Business Administration. I went to junior college (while living at my parents house). I even took a class on Racism in America in junior College as a general education class.
My parents did feed me and let me sleep at their house but they had no money to help me with anything else) and earned enough units for an AA Degree.
Then I transferred to California State University, Chico and earned a 4 year (Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration, Finance Concentration). Again my parents could not help with any costs for Chico state due to my fathers losses on several construction projects. I was able to get some small Pell grants and small loans through the student loan program. I made all my loan payments after I graduated over a period of 10 years.
After earning my Bachelor's degree at Chico, I worked at an insurance company as a Surety Bond Underwriter for about 2 years.
After 2 years at the Insurance company, I decided to go back to graduate school to get my MBA.
I left the insurance company and moved back in with my parents so I could work on my MBA quicker. As I said above, my parents did feed me and let me sleep at their house but they had no money to help me with anything else) and earned enough units for an MBA
If I went full time, it would take 2 years. I went full time for 1 year but got a job after 1 year. I continued to work on my MBA for 2 years through night school taking 2 courses per week from 7PM to 10PM on top of working full time. This was a very hard life. I took out student loans through the US govt to finance the MBA. I finished the MBA and it helped me get better jobs during my career. I paid off the loans over 10 years.
I pulled myself up from my bootstraps. It seems like more people should pull themselves up from their bootstraps and stop blaming the US Government for their shortcomings.
Ralph Moran

