From: Hang Sun Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2021 9:13 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments on ESMC Third Field Review
To whom it may concern
I am a father of two children currently enrolled in the public school system. It brought to my attention this topic from some heated discussions in our Chinese American community (though I am not a fan of the term Asian/Chinese American). I wish I could have more time to read and understand some of the topics. However, I still have a few concerns after reading the chapters related to Asian American.
I appreciate the effort to recognize the ethical richness within the group of "Asian American". It is necessary to dedicate different chapters to very different ethnical groups. Based on a recent paper from Pew Research (https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/05/22/key-facts-about-asian-origingroups-in-the-u-s/), Chinese American is the largest subgroup which has 23% at 2015. I believe the ratio is even higher today. However, the amount of information for Chinese American is very little. There is only one chapter (Lesson 17: Chinese Railroad Workers) and 7 pages (152-158). In comparison, there are 7 chapters for Korean American, 29 pages for Japanese America, 17 pages for Vietnamese American, etc.
Another concern I have is the only story associated with Chinese American is the "Railroad Workers". It might be of historic importance, but is not relevant to most of the Chinese Americans today. Based on the historic population of Chinese American (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_Americans), the current Chinese Americans are mostly new immigrants after 1990 and most of them are from mainland China (including my family). We don't feel connected to the story of "Railroad Workers" and it has no influence on our experience. If the goal is to "cultivate empathy, community actualization, cultural perpetuity,...", how wrong is it to misrepresent the culture of a group of people? To understand the culture of those Chinese Americans from mainland China, it will be critical to explain the recent China history and how the ideology of socialism influences them.
Also, there is not enough effort in celebrating the success of minority groups. How about the election of Barack Obama? How about Africa American's dominance in sports and music? How about most Asia American's success in education, etc.?
Lastly, to have a complete picture, the textbook does not present the "sin" of minority groups. Are we always being oppressed? Do we sometimes become "oppressors" too?
Regards,
H. Sun

