From: Ruth Parker Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2021 8:02 PM To: [list of other recipients redacted]; Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Victims of Communism
In his book "How to Destroy America in Three Easy Steps" Ben Shapiro has a section entitled "The Dominance of Disintegrationist History" On page 177 he writes "The perversion of American history has become the mainstream narrative on the left side of the political spectrum---and since the political left dominates the educational system Disintegrationist history has become establishment history. That historical revisionism has reached the highest levels of American politics...America could only move beyond that history (slavery, Jim Crow, discrimination in almost every institution of our lives) through fundamentally transforming ...our traditions, our history; we're going to have to move into a different lace as a nation...the thought leaders of the New York Times, who declared that America' true founding had taken place not in 1776, but in 1619" when the first slaves were brought to our shores. On page 179 he continues" Increasingly, Americans don't know history at all. And why should they? To understand America's history properly would be to learn about the past---and learning about the past does not achieve the purposes of the Disintegrationists. Better that history should be taught through the prism of politics than that Americans should learn a fully shaded history of our country...Across the country, for decades, social studies has supplanted history in high school and middle schools---and attempt to malke hiatory "relevant" by replacing history teaching with indoctrination with into a particular brand of politics... But this reductionist view of the study of history owes much to the critical studies theories that became dominant decades ago...Ta-Nahisi Coates, while making the case for reparations indicts the entire American system:'the crime which reparations activists charge the country implicates more than just a few towns or corporations. The crime indicts the American people themselves, at every level, and in nearly every configuration.'" (p. 181) In the Disintegrationist view America is unfixable. In the section entitled "Born in Sin" he writes "As we have noted, Disintegrationist history teaches three fundamental principles: first, that America was founded in evil; second, that America is irredeemably divided and can never escape her past absent dismantling her founding principles; third that America has been, on net, terrible for her citizens and terrible for the world. (p181) So when the Democrats wrap themselves in the flag and pretend that they are "saving our democracy" Explain to me why they find Abraham Lincoln so reprehensible that his name must be removed from the high school in Nancy Pelosi's district. He did not free the slaves. He may have signed the Emancipation Proclamation,but he did so for some white supremacist reason and should be spat upon forever. It is important to understand that destroying the nations's history is an essential tool of communism. Mao did this very effectively in China, and murdered more millions than Hitler to prove that communism was the best system for the Chinese people

