
State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
January 17, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
The National Korean Studies Seminar (NKS) is a private, non-profit, nonpartisan, 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to informing educators about Korea's history and culture and the Korean American experience in order to promote cross-cultural understanding. The five-day seminar aims to remedy this deficiency. Public and independent school teachers will become more knowledgeable about Korea and its rich heritage. They can then see a more complete and accurate understanding of East Asia. Furthermore, the role that the United States must play in supporting peace and stability throughout East Asia will come into focus. Understandably, Korean American students too will profit from learning about their heritage. In 2017, NKS published Teaching East Asia: Korea, which serves as the first supplementary instructional resource book for K-16 educators. This publication and the seminar handbook are now available electronically to the public www.koreanseminar.org
NKS supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.

Teaching East Asia: Korea is a highly useful resource for teachers that clearly and concisely delivers accurate and relevant information with practical explanations on how to apply lessons in a classroom setting in accordance with government-issued standards, often in creative and interesting ways. And considering that the e-book version of this text is freely available, any educator teaching K-12 who is interested in integrating Korea in their classes would find it well worth their time to have a look at this book. (From last paragraph of a review in Education About Asia, published by the University of Michigan) The e-book may be downloaded on the National Korean Studies Seminar website: https://www.koreanseminar.org . The entire review of Teaching East Asia: Korea may be located on pages 292-293. This resource book includes Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies, by Dr. Edward Chang pp249-256.
Korean Cultural Center Los Angeles CA https://www.kccla.org/ Korean National Association Memorial Hall in Los Angeles CA http://www.kccla.org/vkorea/view/?vid=1021 Korean American National Museum in Los Angeles CA https://www.kanmuseum.org/ San Francisco Korean American History Museum CA https://sfkahm.org/for-english-users/
As an elementary school teacher for 25 years, I strongly suggest that more resources such as culture and history seminars and museum tours of each ethnic group should be included in the APPENDIX B Resources section. K-12 teachers can utilize these resources for the field trip activities in their Ethnic Studies classroom.
"Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Thank you. Sincerely,
Sung Soon Kim Sungkim271@gmail.com President, NKS National Korean Studies

