From: Israel Cohen Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 7:49 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

Hello CDE staff --

Thank you for enabling us to tell you our thoughts regarding the ESMC.

We hope you will include a link to the IHRA antisemitism
definition in the text or in a glossary. Here is an idea about how
to produce a glossary for an eBook..
-------------
eBooks do not need an index or glossary. A search facility can replace the index and words that would be in a glossary can be linked to explanations on the web. Printed books may need both. The glossary in Shlomo Giora Shoham's Moses: The Righteous Sky Gazer is typical. The average size of each entry is slightly over 30 words. A typical entry looks like this:

Akhenaten

Pharaoh Akhenaten (meaning "Effective for Aten") ruled 17 years. Before the 5th year of his reign, he was known as Amenhotep IV (Greek Amenophis IV meaning Amun is Satisfied).

The same entry in a tinyURL glossary could look like this:
Glossary
This glossary provides tinyURL links to additional information on the web for each term. To display data from the web, enter tinyurl.com/ followed by the term's alphanumeric code. All characters in the code that look like a lowercase L are actually the number 1.

Term (with actual link)
Akhenaten

tinyurl.com/ p7u8ccr

The tinyURLs link to much more comprehensive definitions and the average size of each entry is less than three words.
To see the "definition" for Akhenaten, the reader must enter tinyurl.com/p7u8ccr in a device with access to the web. The effort required is about the same as dialing a phone number that is not already stored on one's smartphone. However, the effort required to produce a tinyURL glossary is much less than that required to produce a standard glossary with the same terms.
-----------------

We also want you to ensure that all school districts have a curriculum that does not encourage BDS orantisemitism. The standards you set may get adopted by many other States.
Best regards and stay well, izzy Israel A. Cohen [email redacted] Inactive member of the Florida Bar

