From: MMLYZUN Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 1:39 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Social Justice teaching in the future
To Whom it may concern;
It has come to my attention that in Cupertino and some other cities in CA some teachers are teaching racial equality and social justice assignments.
Aside from the fact that I believe schools should be teaching the basics, these lessons were taught in MATH. What does this have to do with MATH?
Of course ethnic studies and all history needs to be taught, the good and the bad.
Social Justice has no place in a math class and should be taught as an elective. Racial bias should not be pointed out by a MATH teacher and students should not be asked to rate themselves by "race, ethnic background and social status". Most of these assignments made the white students out to be entitled and belittled for there current place in development.
Perhaps if you are actually telling teachers to teach this type of assignment you should include "Affirmative Action" and explain it is the only discriminatory law actually in the books. Please teach who is actually "entitled" and what they are entitled to.
Americans are, and always have been entitled to; working for what they have, paying their bills, paying their taxes, obeying the law and the freedom to live as they please while they are supporting the United States Of America.
Our children are graduating not knowing how to spell, how to add, how to put a proper sentence together and these teachers would rather teach "social justice warriors".
It infuriates me that our school expenditures are higher in America than most countries and our education is rated lowest.
That should infuriate YOU.
Stick to the basics.
Our children need to be taught respect for themselves and each other, how to act if pulled over by the police, how to balance a checkbook, sign their names, address an envelope, fill out a job application form.
If you are going to go down the road of teaching these subjects, you need to inform the voters of it and

put the new agenda on a ballot to see what we as a free society would like our next generations to be taught.
Marci Lyzun CA native and American Patriot San Carlos, CA

