
State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
January 17, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
International Korean Educators Network (IKEN) is founded on establishing a systematic support network of educating our future generation by strengthening their identity through Korean language and cultural education as productive, global citizens of the future. www.ikeneducate.org IKEN takes an active role in supporting educators of Korean language and culture in different types of schools such as Korean Dual Language Program, Korean language classes as a foreign language in secondary schools, and Korean community language schools in the world to share a common pedagogy in positively influencing the future generation. This objective is made possible with the active support of Korean policy makers and community partners by promoting the Korean language as a world language and Korean cultural contents such as K-POP.
IKEN supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.

Since 2010, IKEN has developed and provided IKEN Korean Online Curriculum and KECOS Online Course to the K-12 schools in US, which are widely used throughout the nation. They are aligned with the Common Core State Standards and National Standard for Quality (NSQ) Online Learning. It also reflects the Standards for California World Language Learning and is developed to achieve the goal of the 5 Cs: Communication, Culture, Comparison, Connection, and Community. They cover the entire Korean language curriculum from Kindergarten through the 12th grade, based on the ACTFL proficiency guideline. Both Korean Online Programs contain Korean language, Korean American history, K-POP culture, literature, socioeconomics, KoreanAmerican experience, and famous Korean figures. These dynamic materials will help create interest while building knowledge about Korean American Experience. www.ikeneducate.org/course-overview/
As an elementary school teacher for 25 years, I strongly recommend to add the language resources to APPENDIX B Resources section because the language is the most critical component to teach the diverse culture and history. The language and culture cannot be taught separatly in Ethnic Studies.
"Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Thank you. Sincerely,
Sung Soon Kim Sungkim271@gmail.com President, IKEN International Korean Educators Network

