From: Marla Franz Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2021 11:24 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Feedback for the ESMC Third Field Review
Hello, I am very concerned about the proposed curriculum being forced onto our kids in CA on critical race theory. The material overlooks the positive aspects of our countries' history and accuses ALL Americans of systemic racism. It proposes the solution to the wrongs of our forefathers is to teach our innocent children today that if their skin color is white, they are oppressors and perpetrators of racism (whether they know it, or not), and if they are not white, they are victims of racism and oppressed (whether they have ever felt oppressed, or not). This "theory" encourages racial discrimination, breeds racial tension, punishes and teaches self-deprecation in white children, while teaching non-white children that they are victims of those with white skin. How about teaching all kids are capable of anything if they work hard and get a good education. That's what they are there in school for!! The sample lesson plans in the curriculum focus on only leftist and democrat role models of ethnic diversity, and ignores minorities with conservative ideology. A viewing of the "Uncle Tom" documentary or the work of Candace Owens, Larry Elder, Ben Carson, or the late great Herman Cane, would be a good addition to a well rounded and unbiased ethnic studies curriculum, but such conservative sources are ignored perpetuating the biased, leftist agenda of the SBE. The proposed Third Field Review curriculum also glorifies leftist activism, such as Black Lives Matter, which is itself a political organization while the curriculum seeks to exclude sources with "political bias" - with the anti-law enforcement assumption of police brutality, and without any recognition that law enforcement may have had justification for its actions in a particular case - with the assignment requiring the student to take on the leftist position of enacting change or engaging in protest. The leftist bias is inexcusable. It is NOT "teaching tolerance" it is teaching hatred towards our country and its law enforcement - and hatred towards non-leftists - again increasing the national divide. In short, the Critical Race Theory curriculum proposed by the SBE, is itself racist, it does not unify, it does not empower, and it would actually harm children.
Thank you Marla Franz

