From: Mike Brown Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 11:37 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments regarding proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
I find your proposed Curriculum extremely divisive and subtly racist.
1. I don't see how eulogizing Black Panthers and BLM will help bring racial harmony which you espouse.
2. I have a problem with your 'careful' 1992 L.A Korean-Black 'conflict' description. I was in LA back then and distinctly remember the events: black mobs attacked Korean-owned stores: it was that simple. Police was nowhere to be seen and Koreans took it upon themselves to defend their property, with firearms and 24hr patrols. After that experience Koreans learned that they cannot rely on the government to protect them (or for anything else, for that matter), and emerged from a traditionally silent/'docile' Asian minority to a tough, self-sufficient and ultimately very successful group which revitalized a rundown section of LA into the present jewel of Koreatown. You, somehow, are trying to blame white establishment for the 'conflict'. If you want to cite history, do it honestly.
3. I specifically take offence regarding Jewish Americans:
a) What exactly does it mean 'conditional whiteness, and privilege', line 10407? Jews worked very hard to EARN GRUDGING RESPECT; there were no given any 'privileges'.
b) Your 'iceberg of identity' approach on how to recognize a (potentially hidden) Jew (Lines 10451, 10452, 10453) would make Gestapo proud.
c) Line 10513 'racial privilege': really? Jews worked VERY HARD to EARN their societal standing.
d) Lines 10642-44: Many (most?) immigrants, and not only Jews changed their names after coming to America: Poles, Italians, even Germans (especially during and after World Wars, including President Trump's father) routinely changed their names to sound WASPy and less 'ethnic'.
e) Line 10650: 'gaining racial privilege': nobody 'gave' Jews any privilege: they earned it.
I DO NOT WANT this curriculum to be adopted.
Mike Brown, a Jew

