From: [email redacted] Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 8:34 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Basic Flaw in Program

Ethnic Studies Comments

19 June 2021

I have reviewed the "Ethic Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines, Reviewed September 4, 2020." I have not been able to find the actual report on the internet. Thus I cannot talk to the specifics of the report. I have reviewed the model curriculum and my comments are based on the model curriculum statement of the 20 August 2020 Report.
To summarize my comments, I feel that if the overall program continues as visualized in the report, it will increase tribalism and division within the country. It has no overall goal to make the students more patriotic and show how far we have come in integrating different groups into our country. It does not give historical perspective to how far we have come. Instead of emphasizing the "melting pot" aspects of our society, they have changed to "salad society" model that has led to tribalism and strife in our country.
The goal of the ethnic studies programs should be to integrate people from different heritages into the American culture. Our basic heritage comes from Western Europe. This heritage is the basis of our attraction to other countries. Our culture is so popular that people are continuing to pour into our country from the whole world. If we destroy that heritage, we will destroy those things which are attractive to people worldwide. We can welcome, celebrate, and enjoy what other people give to our country but at what point will we destroy what makes our country attractive? In spite of what people say, if you love something you do not want to change it to the point where it is no longer recognizable. Emphasizing Ethnic Studies without context, including the historical context of when it happened, what was happening in the remainder of the world, and knowledge of our national history could lead to the destruction of our culture. There is no mention of these ideas in the goals of the proposed Ethnic Studies program.
The focus on the Four Foundational Disciplines is a major mistake. They are disciplines which ignored the major skeleton on which our culture is based and emphasizes our national flaws instead of highlighting the advances that have helped minorities. For example, Great Britain and the US are the reasons that slavery of blacks was stopped.
The results of emphasizing these four disciplines may lead to more friction between the four and other ethnic minorities. Fifty percent of my genes are Italian. There was a major influx of Italians to the US in the early 20th century. What is not well known is that approximately 50% of those that came here returned to Italy. Those that stayed wanted to become Americans and Italians have now completely integrated into our society. We are Americans, not Italian-American. We are a better nation because of immigrants that stayed and the other legal immigrants from all countries. The proposed program does nothing to help the students identify more with being American than identifying with their tribal group. The solution to this problem is to strengthen the American History and Civics programs to include the actual accomplishments of the different ethnic groups in the overall tapestry of our county. Then the students would get the framework of country and the recognition that each group desires. It may mean adding a three semester requirement for history/civics. For example, how many people know about the accomplishments of Walter William, Thomas Sowell, and Justice Thomas? They are three of my hero's in my lifetime and are all black. We need to make the students color blind as Martin Luther King visualized in his "I have a Dream" speech. We need to celebrate what each group has added to the country and not exacerbate our differences as is being done in current ethnic studies classes.
Our country is not a zero sum game. That is one of the reasons our economy has continued to grow. Ethnic studies can incite violence and friction between different groups who think they should be favored over another group.. The old eastern European joke goes "Two farmers have similar plots of land. One farmer has two goats while the other has one goat. When the Commissar came to tax what the farmers had, the one with one goat said split the goat of my neighbor with me. The Commissar said that it would just kill the goat. The farmer said that would be OK because he would then have the same number of goats that I have." Individuals and groups are not the same. Ethnic studies would show the difference between groups and incite envy.

Sincerely,
George A. Kuck, Ph.D. Physics
[address redacted] Westminster, CA 92683

