From: Alan Cordova Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 11:03 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Superintendent Thurmond, President Darling-Hammond and members of the Instructional Quality Commission: I am a Jewish-American resident of San Francisco, and am writing to express my disagreement with the lack of attention to Palestinian and Palestinian-American identity, as well as the community's history of oppression by the State of Israel and marginalization by Zionist organizations in the United States and around the world. Such neglect furthers the "omission of the experiences and cultures of communities within California," the rectification of which is a primary goal of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC). For example, among the 21 sample lessons on Asian-American and Pacific Islander Studies offered in Appendix A, there are more scenarios on attacks against non-Arabs, where the attacker believed that the victim was Arab, than against Arabs themselves. Furthermore, whereas Sample Lesson 40 ("Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern-Americans") describes Jews from Middle Eastern countries as `refugees' who `fled antisemitic persecution,' nowhere is it mentioned that these same Jewish communities lived peacefully for hundreds or thousands of years in the Middle East while their European counterparts saw their communities decimated by the Crusades, Inquisition, and pogroms. Most damaging is the way the State of Israel is treated in the ESMC. Whereas Jewish identity is defined in part by "connections to the land of Israel," nowhere is mentioned the fact that a thriving and prosperous community of indigenous Palestinian Arabs of 750,000 was forcibly ethnically cleansed from their land by Jewish settler-colonizers. These settler-colonizers explicitly modeled themselves after their European counterparts, dismissing the indigenous populations there as either nonexistent or as a minor inconvenience to be thought of as barbaric and uncivilized. Millions of Jews reject Zionism as their inheritance and identity. Unfortunately, we are not as loud, influential, well-resourced, or intimidating as our Zionist counterparts, who would have the California State Board of Education capitulate to their demands. I urge you to reconsider, and stand on the side of justice and in the spirit of the principles of Ethnic Studies. Sincerely, Alan Cordova [address redacted] San Francisco, CA

