From: Morrie Barembaum Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 9:31 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Comments
To Whom It May Concern,
I would like to voice my deep concerns related to the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) that is currently up for review.
As a Jew, the way in which Jewish people and their history is presented is of great concern to me as I fear it will only lead to hatred.
As I am sure we would all agree, education is very important as it has the power to mold young minds. Why, therefore, would one want to promote a curriculum that would single out a group in a negative light?
No group, other than the Jews, are described as "privileged"?
As anti-semitic attacks increased dramatically in 2019 (https://www.adl.org/news/pressreleases/antisemitic-incidents-hit-all-time-high-in-2019), why would one wish to exacerbate the issue by using caustic language. The language of "privilege" is not complimentary - it is in fact, derogatory. "White privilege" has become a slur - and so to describe Jews (and only Jews) as "privileged" is a soft-form of derision. Should this language seep into the curriculum, and therefore into the mindset of California students, would one expect anti-semitic attacks to increase or decrease?
I seriously doubt that labeling an entire group with a term viewed as an insult will do anything to combat anti-semitism. Whether intentional or not, the curriculum will allow California students to view Jews as "them" and "others". The NAZIs separated the Jews. Pointed to the Jews as the reason why Germany experienced their problems between the wars.
I am baffled why educators need to tear down one group in order to elevate others. Yet, here we are. A group of educators feel it is ok to promote stereotype of Jews. The denigrate Jews.
And to what purpose?
I respectfully request that you read this article from the Jewish Journal: https://jewishjournal.com/commentary/327667/jews-have-until-thursday-to-influence-ethnic-studiescurriculum/
as well as this article from Stand with Us that contains some suggested revisions: https://www.standwithus.com/esmc-analysis-and-revisions
Thank you for your time,
Morrie Barembaum

