From: Gold, Jacob Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 7:18 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Desist in your plans to harm the lives of my Californian Jewish family members!
Dear Ethnic Studies Curriculum Team,
Happy Inauguration Day! On this bright morning of national renewal, and of national rededication to the pursuit of equitable justice, it pains me to write an email pleading with you to refrain from plunging so many Jewish members of my family who live in California, most of them school-age children, into a landscape of ideologically sanctioned attacks, defamations and direct harms to life and limb, to body and spirit.
I have been apprised of the sections of your ethnic studies curriculum that can- appallinglybe compared to Nazi-era racial pseudoscience about Jewish identity, and would similarly and directly incite Jew-hatred by weaponizing age-old Anti-Semitic tropes in order to indoctrinate our youth in the predicates of Jew-hatred and inevitable harm of Jews and Jewish communities.
I have never in my life drawn such equivalencies, nor supported their use in rhetoric, especially concerning arguments about the civic development of the United States. However, what I have read from your ethnic studies curriculum, as it now stands, is so blatant in its singling out of Jews as malfeasant manipulators of your working definition of "privilege," so divisive and disinforming when it comes to the diversity of Jewish identities and experiences, affinities and histories, that such a comparison is here, sadly, grotesquely, merited in fact.
I am writing to urge you to quell your desires to vilify Jewish youths in front of their classmates of all other walks of life; moreover, to embrace the complexity of all of our identities on the one hand, and the universal dignity of all people, especially children, on the other.
I refuse to allow my sweet little cousins and their future children and their children and so on to grow up in a California where going to school means being put on trial for ostensible crimes of white-presenting or however you choose to describe it-- I know that you know that we all know what's going on here, and you know exactly what travesties you are trying to wreak here, expecting that Jewish commitment to progressive values, inclusivity, equity and solidarity will goad us into self-silencing.
No, we will not be silent, and we will not desist from aspiring to the highest ideals, and not allow institutionalized libelous hatred against the Jewish people to stand- no, not ever. Never again.
Jacob Orin Gold

