From: Joseph, Rebecca Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 10:52 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Response to Ethnic Studies Curriculum
Dear Committee:
I train urban teachers and teach diversity and multicultural classes. I find that this curriculum neglects that Jewish people are a minority and discriminated against in similar and different ways from other minority cultures. In her book Caste, Isabel Wilkerson describes how Nazis used the southern white playbook to model their language and policies. We are inextricably bound to the minority cultures in our country and in the world. The election of Ossoff and Warnock in Georgia is an indication of two minorities banding and bonding together.
Under our country, Jewish people are discriminated against in horrible ways including our synagogues being bombed, shot at, and threatened. Most recently, during the January 6 insurrection, throngs of people wore anti-Semitic messages--more than any other racist messages. Their messages said 6 million is not enough and promoted the return of concentration camps. We have faced generations of discrimination and are at the most recent risk in recent history.
Yet this curriculum separates us out and calls us privileged. It ignores our history and again seeks to divide us. Ethnics studies programs need to follow what happens in the United States. The current curriculum would create generations of children who see Jewish people as part of the majority because of the far right. We are allies. We are together.
This curriculum should be rejected until it includes a section on Jewish people equal to those of Asians, Native Americans, Latinos, and African Americans. It needs to look in each of the sections and edit out anti-Semitic tropes--whether intended or not.
I am afraid of what this curriculum will do to perpetuate anti-Semitism in our state.
I am willing to speak with the curriculum developers if you want.
REBECCA JOSEPH Professor Pronouns: she/her(s) Learn more about pronouns Division of Curriculum and Instruction, Charter College of Education California State University, Los Angeles [address redacted] Los Angeles, CA

