From: Jessica Leah Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 11:48 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] REJECT Proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
CA Ethnic Studies Team,
News of the proposed, state-wide, mandatory Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum in California is spreading like wildfire in the Jewish community in California. I am a 34 year old Jewish woman, born and raised in Southern California. I am disgusted by the rampant anti-Semitism that permeates this proposed curriculum. Less than 75 years ago, Jews across the globe were forced to lie about their deeply held religious beliefs and long-standing traditions in order to avoid imprisonment, torture and death. Almost 11 million people died in the Holocaust and, here we are, in 2021, having to fight our PUBLIC OFFICIALS from disseminating lies, half-truths and blatant anti-Semitic narratives to the next generation. And, astonishingly, we aren't forced to confront this matter in country/state that is vocal about its anti-Semitism and its goal of "exterminating" the Jewish population (e.g. countless countries in the Middle East), rather we are dealing with this matter in California. When I grew up in California in the 80s/90s, our public officials stood for freedom and fairness, and worked with the broader community to further protective measures for minority populations. What happened?
Sadly, people my age, who are beginning to have children, will be forced to leave if this type of government mandated brainwashing is formalized in the educational curriculum. The Jewish population in California is peaceful, community-oriented and law-abiding, emphasizes education and hard work and, as a result, contributes a significant amount (both monetarily and culturally) to the fabric of California society. It will be quite a shame for California to start to see the Jewish community flee to other states, states where they can send their kids to public schools (funded by TAXPAYER MONEY) that don't promote blatant anti-Semitism. Of 350 million people in the US, a mere 7 million are Jews. To slander and marginalize such a vulnerable population, after the unthinkable genocide that occurred in the recent past, is not only disheartening and a powerful motivation to leave California, but it's OUTRIGHT DISGUSTING.
I can't imagine a government not only advocating but institutionalizing villainization of the Jewish population, alleging duplicitousness and dishonesty, pushing propaganda that Jews are a uniquely evil community meriting negative attention and critique from the rest of the world. Oh wait, maybe I can....https://www.history.com/topics/world-war-ii/the-holocaust
SHAME ON YOU
Sincerely Jessica

