From: Michael Terner Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 9:56 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] California Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum - Jews
Dear Ethnic Studies,
Overall the notion that pitting different groups against each other is a way to create a more fair and harmonious society is certainly one that is subject to debate. Martin Luther King was striving for a color blind society not a color conscious society. All people should have equal protection under the law. We should strive for fairness and justice and promote the advancement of all of our various people and their identity groups.
Specifically, the Jewish people have historically been an extremely marginalized and persecuted group. There is no group in the world that has experienced more persecution and genocide in history. Anti Semitism has had a long and bloody history.
The Jews in our country have been some of the greatest champions of civil rights for all peoples, because fairness and justice are basic foundations of the Torah. Jews understand that protecting the civil rights of others is the morally correct thing to do.
Ruth Bader Ginsburg is a good example of a Jew who rose in the society and promoted equality and fairness under the law. There are many others like her, and on the other hand, it is almost impossible to find Jews involved in any organizations that seek to limit equality. Jews are not white supremacists, in fact nothing could be further from the truth.
There ought to be no discussion about Jews and privilege that doesn't begin by talking about the historically enacted and repeated genocidal ideology that revolves around Jews and privilege. For an ethnic studies curriculum to engage in that discourse without a single mention of its ugly and bloody history is not a lesson about anti-Semitism. It is a repetition of it. By itself, that should effectuate a vote of no confidence in the entire franchise.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
I hope the state will not sanction a model that could easily promote anti semitism.

Regards, Michael Terner

