From: Warren Goldstone Sent: Tuesday, January 19, 2021 11:15 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Today, I am writing to you about the proposed Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum.
This document has two purposes as currently planned: (1) to provide a structure for learning about the contributions of ethnic groups living in California to create an atmosphere of harmony and (2) to cement that atmosphere with negative and hostile views of Jews.
The easiest way to create a sense of harmony among diverse ethnic groups is to find a scapegoat, a group that can be blamed for all the disharmony and evils in a society and that everyone else can hate without consequences.
The best such groups for this purpose are the smallest minorities because their disparity in numbers makes physically fighting back a pointless exercise and the number of votes they can generate is miniscule. In fact, when a scapegoated minority does resist (and even when it doesn't resist), it is easily condemned as "naturally violent," "presumptuous," "haughty," "arrogant," "pretentious," "a threat to decent people everywhere" and (worst of all )"uppity."
The Nazis are roundly condemned for this behavior. While they didn't create the template, they certainly refined it.
The proposed curriculum doesn't recommend the Nazis' Final Solution, but it certainly creates the atmosphere for it in the future.
"White supremacists continue to racialize Jews as non-white," the curriculum's "Fact Sheet on Jewish American Diversity" acknowledges. But "many Jews with light skin identify with the idea of white-presenting," it reads. "Light-skinned Jews...experience white privilege," while "Jews of color like all communities of color face systemic racism." In other words, the same kind of Jews who, in living memory, were forced into ovens for being non-white, are now identified as white нн or at a minimum, as having "conditional whiteness." This disqualifies most Jews from the solidarity offered other minority groups.
And, thus, only are light-skinned Jews condemned, but for the same reasons are all folks with lighter skin.
Friedrich Gustave Nielmoller was a German theologian and Lutheran pastor. He was best known for his opposition to the Nazi regime during the late 1930s. "First they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out--Because I was not a socialist. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out--Because I was not a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out--Because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me--and there was no one left to speak for me."

You know, those Jews really aren't so bad. It's just those pesky Ten Commandments. If they didn't talk about that stuff we wouldn't have to feel so guilty about things.
Warren S. Goldstone, Los Angeles, CA

