From: Kevin S Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 4:51 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] re: MY COMMENTS ON ETHNIC STUDIES
Greetings, I'm an educator, writer, tutor, and so on. I've some very important things to say. Many people echo my sentiments, so I'm speaking on behalf of others too. Please confirm you received this email.
We think ethnic studies, world geography, and the like are very important. I used to teach geography and civics, by the way. In one of my classes, I had the students find and pronounce the name of EVERY COUNTRY on the map! We feel we must look at all cultures equal, positive way, and if need be, offer fair criticism of some darker periods of history experienced by different groups.
So, there is fear by many that some of the curriculum could be biased in a way, if I may bluntly say, and as others have remarked, by "elevating 'blackness', while devaluing 'whiteness'."
Here is a list of concerns many have. Each one is a trending meme we find being indirectly taught to our youth; some points are seen in the proposed Ethnic Studies curriculum: -every "white" has privilege -every PERSON OF COLOR is oppressed -we are a RACIST NATION (No, we are not. A truly "racist nation" would never elect a black president...twice.) -slavery is only unique to America (please see link to my Oped about slavery, link below) -slavery was only done by white Europeans, and only to POC -police kill more black people than any other people (Fact is that, in 2019, a total of 9 unarmed black people were killed by police. By comparison, 23 unarmed white people had the same fate.) -America was founded because of slavery -black people can not be "racist" -the dangerous trending belief that "violence, looting, vandalism = social justice" if done the right way
Thank you for reading. I look forward to your feedback. Being afforded the opportunity to give further input, I'd graciously welcome that. Fyi, I also worked with the CA Assembly, led community think tanks, and I'm the fellow who shepherded the semi-iconic, CA "Butterfly Bill". Here is the link to my Oped: https://www.citywatchla.com/index.php/cw/los-angeles/20039-five-misconceptions-about-thisera-of-protests Thank you for your time.
Very sincerely, Kevin Suscavage

