From: Paul Kujawsky (via Google Docs) Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 4:58 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: cde@cde.ca.gov; SBE; Superintendent; gavin.newsom@gov.ca.gov; eleni.kounalakis@lgt.ca.gov Subject: [EXTERNAL] DEFINITION ETHNIC STUDIES
[email redacted] has attached the following document:
DEFINITION ETHNIC STUDIES
Snapshot of the item below: DEFINITION OF ETHNIC STUDIES Dear Members of the California State Board of Education: I am concerned about the latest draft of Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), which continues to be based on the discipline known as "critical ethnic studies." Critical ethnic studies is a form of radical activism which views the history of the United States essentially as a history of settler colonialism and white supremacism. It regards ethnic group membership as paramount over individual identity. In this vision, racism is an omnipresent and structural feature of American society. According to critical ethnic studies, people who belong to certain racial or ethnic groups are inevitably victimized by racism, while members of other racial or ethnic groups are unavoidably privileged and beneficiaries of racism. For advocates of critical ethnic studies, there is little to no distinction between scholarship and activism. This view of critical ethnic studies, that society comprises an immutable racial hierarchy of victimhood, is incompatible with liberal democracy. I am further concerned that using critical ethnic studies as the basis of the ESMC may violate these provisions of law: (1) Teaching a critical ethnic studies-based curriculum would violate Education Code section 60044, which states in part: "No instructional materials shall be adopted by any governing board for use in the schools, which in its determination contains: (a) Any matter reflecting adversely upon persons on the basis of race or ethnicity . . . ." (2) Teaching a critical ethnic studies-based curriculum would violate the 2013 State Board of Education Standards for Evaluating Instructional Materials for Social Content, which state that the purpose of the standards is to "project the cultural diversity of society; instill in each child a sense of pride in his or her heritage; develop a feeling of self worth related to equality of opportunity, eradicate the roots of prejudice, and thereby encourage the optimal individual development of each student." (3) Teaching a critical ethnic studies-based curriculum would violate Education Code Section 233, the Hate Violence Prevention Act, which states in part: "Establish guidelines for use in teacher and administrator in-service training programs to promote an appreciation of diversity and to discourage the development of discriminatory attitudes and practices that prevent pupils from achieving their full potential." Because of these concerns over the potential harm of critical ethnic studies theory I encourage you to adopt the following definition of ethnic studies: "Ethnic Studies is defined as a course or curriculum that explores the diversity, history and cultures of the various ethnic groups who live in California. No ethnic studies curriculum may teach that members of any ethnic group are guilty of crimes committed by ancestors of that group or by other members of that group. No ethnic studies curriculum may teach that the members of any ethnic group or race are structurally positioned either as oppressed or as oppressors. This definition does not restrict instruction on any instance of genocide or oppression of a particular group on the basis of ethnicity or race."

I appreciate your effort toward the production of a solid ESMC document to guide our teachers in educating our students. I believe it makes sound educational sense to use the above definition to guide the development of any ethnic studies curriculum. I appreciate your advocacy and effort on this hugely important task that will impact ethnic studies education in California and potentially throughout the country. Sincerely, Paul Kujawsky, Esq. Cc: Governor Gavin Newsom
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis

