State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
January 20, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
My name is Sung Soon Kim, who has been an elementary school teacher of Los Angeles Unified School District and Hacienda La Puente Unified School District since 1995. I have been teaching the Korean language at the Korean Dual Immersion Program for twenty-five years. I have also served as the president of International Korean Educators Network (IKEN) and National Korean Studies (NKS) as well. I am also a former president and a current board member of the Korean Language Teachers Association in the USA (KLTA-USA).
I strongly support the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
As a Korean Language teacher in my entire life, I strongly recommend to add the language resources to APPENDIX B Resources section because the language is the most critical component to teach the diverse culture and history. The language and culture cannot be taught separately in Ethnic Studies.
IKEN Korean Online Curriculum and KECOS Korean Online Course to the K-12 schools in US are widely used Korean online curriculum throughout the nation. They are aligned with the Common Core State Standards and National Standard for Quality (NSQ) Online Learning. It also reflects the Standards for California World Language Learning and is developed to achieve the

goal of the 5 Cs: Communication, Culture, Comparison, Connection, and Community. They cover the entire Korean language curriculum from Kindergarten through the 12th grade, based on the ACTFL proficiency guideline. Both Korean Online Programs contain K-Culture Resources such as Korean language, Korean American history, K-POP culture, literature, socioeconomics, Korean American experience, and famous Korean figures. These dynamic materials will help create interest while building knowledge about Korean American Experience.
"Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Teaching East Asia: Korea is a highly useful resource for teachers that clearly and concisely delivers accurate and relevant information with practical explanations on how to apply lessons in a classroom setting in accordance with government-issued standards, often in creative and interesting ways. And considering that the e-book version of this text is freely available, any educator teaching K-12 who is interested in integrating Korea in their classes would find it well worth their time to have a look at this book. (From last paragraph of a review in Education About Asia, published by the University of Michigan) The e-book may be downloaded on the National Korean Studies Seminar website: https://www.koreanseminar.org . The entire review of Teaching East Asia: Korea is located on pages 292-293. This resource book includes Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies, by Dr. Edward Chang pp249-256.
In addition I strongly suggest that more resources such as culture and history seminars and museum tours of each ethnic group should be included in the APPENDIX B Resources section. K-12 teachers can utilize these resources for the field trip activities in their Ethnic Studies classroom.
Korean Culture & History Seminar for American Educators http://www.koreaseminar.org Korean Cultural Center Los Angeles CA https://www.kccla.org/ Korean National Association Memorial Hall in Los Angeles CA http://www.kccla.org/vkorea/view/?vid=1021 Korean American National Museum in Los Angeles CA https://www.kanmuseum.org/ San Francisco Korean American History Museum CA https://sfkahm.org/for-english-users/
Thank you very much.
Sincerely,
Sung Soon Kim sungkim271@gmail.com 909-973-0449 Korean Dual Immersion Teacher, Hacienda La Puente Unified School District, President, International Korean Educators Network President, National Korean Studies Seminar Board member, Korean Language Teachers Association in USA

