Gender Expansive Hxstory
Lesson Title: BIPOC Ancestral Gender Fluidity Around the World
Grade Level(s): Elementary (may be adapted for middle/high school)
Ethnic Studies Values and Principles Alignment:  Cultivate empathy, community actualization, cultural perpetuity, self-worth, selfdetermination, and the holistic well-being of all participants, especially Native People/s and People of Color.  Celebrate and honor Native People/s of the land and Communities of Color by providing a space to share their stories of struggle and resistance along with their intellectual and cultural wealth.  Center and place high value on pre-colonial, ancestral, indigenous, diasporic, familial, and marginalized knowledge.  Critique empire, white supremacy, anti-blackness, anti-indigeneity, racism, xenophobia, patriarchy, cisheteropatriarchy, capitalism, ableism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of power and oppression at the intersections of our society.  Challenge imperialist/colonial hegemonic beliefs and practices on ideological, institutional, interpersonal and internalized levels.
Standards Alignment:
 CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.RI.4.1 (Refer to details and examples in a text when explaining what the text says explicitly and when drawing inferences from the text.)
 CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.RI.4.2 (Determine the main idea of a text and explain how it is supported by key details; summarize the text.)
 CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.W.4.8 (Explain how an author uses reasons and evidence to support particular points in a text.)
 CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.W.4.7 (Interpret information presented visually, orally, or quantitatively (e.g., in charts, graphs, diagrams, time lines, animations, or interactive elements on Web pages) and explain how the information contributes to an understanding of the text in which it appears.)
 CCSS.ELA-LITERACY.SL.4.4 (Report on a topic or text, tell a story, or recount an experience in an organized manner, using appropriate facts and relevant, descriptive details to support main ideas or themes; speak clearly at an understandable pace.)
Lesson Purpose and Overview (1-2 Paragraphs Narrative Explanation)
During this lesson, students will analyze non-fiction texts to understand beliefs and traditions surrounding gender fluidity in multiple Black, Indigenous, People of Color (BIPOC) LGBTQ+ ethnic communities around the world. Students will engage in meaningful conversations about the impact of colonialism on the gender fluidity of these BIPOC LGBTQ+ communities. Students

will work in small groups (4-5 students in each group) to focus on learning about gender expansive peoples within one ethnic community. They will engage in dialogue to answer textspecific questions. Students are expected to take notes and present their findings to the class. As students are presenting, the class will be taking notes on each ethnic community's traditions and understandings of gender constructs. After all groups present, the class will engage in a conclusive dialogue where they begin to answer the essential questions: What is gender fluidity? How has colonialism affected gender fluidity in various ethnic communities around the world? How have these communities upheld their culture in the face of colonialism?
The following gender expansive ethnic communities are centered in this particular lesson; however, educators may add additional gender expansive ethnic communities or adjust the number of peoples, based upon their classroom size. These groups were chosen to signify the continental ancestral homelands of BIPOC communities, diverse representations of gender fluidity across these groups, and the continents they originate from:
1) Zapotec - Muxes (mo oSH) 2) Lakota - Winkte/Two-Spirit 3) Native Hawi'ian - Mh 4) Ethiopia - Ashtime 5) Kenya & Tanzania - Mashoga 6) Sulawesi, Indonesia - Bissu 7) Samoa - Fa'afafine 8) Thailand - Kathoey
Educators may use the following slides to provide grade-level nonfiction text to each group. The Student Information PPT includes 8 ethnic communities. The first slide under each ethnic community has text-specific questions students will answer in their small groups. The second slide for each community has text for middle and high school students. The third slide for each community has text geared toward upper elementary students (4th-5th grades).
Key Terms & Concepts (Ties into larger unit key terms may also include terms specific to the lesson)
 Identity (should be pre-taught before this lesson)  Gender (should be pre-taught before this lesson)  Gender Fluidity  Two Spirit  Colonialism  Transgender  Winkte (Lakota)  Mahu (Native Hawai'i)  Ashtime (Ethiopia)  Mashoga (Kenya/Tanzania)  Bissu (Indonesia)  Fa'afafine (Samoa)  Kathoey (Thailand)
Lesson Objectives

1. Students will be able to define gender fluidity. 2. Students will be able to relate gender fluidity to different BIPOC ethnic groups around the
world. 3. Students will annotate and take notes on non-fiction texts. 4. Students will use information from non-fiction texts to answer important questions. 5. Students will work in groups to better understand the non-fiction text and answer
questions relating to their reading.
Essential Questions (Ties lesson to larger unit purpose)
What is gender fluidity? How has colonialism affected gender fluidity in different ethnic communities around the world? How have these communities upheld their culture in the face of colonialism?
Lesson Steps/Activities 1. Community Builder / Cultural Energizer (5-10 minutes)  Activating prior knowledge - Quick write  What does gender mean to you? 2. Direct Instruction (20 minutes)  Define new key terms: gender fluidity, colonialism, two spirit, Muxes, Mahu, Bissu,  Video: https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-53573764 3. Small group research (30 minutes)  Students will be put into small groups to read a non-fiction text and answer questions relating to their assigned reading. In their groups, students will choose a role:  Readers (2-3 students)  Time keeper  Note taker  Presenter  Students are expected to present what they learned from the text to the rest of the class. 4. Conclusive Dialogue (student and community reflection)  Each group will present their information to the class. While each group is presenting, students will take notes on each ethnic community. They will have a graphic organizer with questions they need to answer for each ethnic community.  After all groups have presented, the class will engage in a community circle.  In the community circle, the teacher will facilitate by asking the questions: 1) What is gender fluidity? 2) How has colonialism affected gender fluidity in different ethnic communities around the world? 3) How have these communities upheld their culture in the face of colonialism?
Application, Action, Assessment,and Reflection  Application: Students will apply five of the guiding values and principles of ethnic studies (cultivate, celebrate, center, critique, and challenge) throughout all stages of the learning embedded within this lesson.  Specifically students will apply these values and principles in the following ways:  Cultivate empathy of gender expansive BIPOC communities across the

world.  Celebrate and honor gender expansive Native People/s of the Land and
Communities of Color by sharing their cultural wealth.  Center and place high value on pre-colonial, ancestral, indigenous,
diasporic, familial, and marginalized knowledge of gender fluidity.  Critique empire, white supremacy, anti-Indigeneity, patriarchy, and
cisheteropatriarchy.  Challenge imperialist/colonial hegemonic beliefs on the construction of
gender.
 Action: Students will engage with multiple media sources provided by their teacher, to build an understanding of the meanings of key terms used throughout the lesson (for example, gender, gender fluidity, colonialism, transgender, two-spirit). Following this direct instruction, students will form groups in order to collaboratively research the traditions, culture and expressions of gender expansive people within an ethnic community. After research is concluded, students will present their knowledge to their peers, teaching each other about the multiple gender expansive peoples that were studied by the entire classroom community.
 Assessment: Students will be assessed on their presentation to the class on the gender expansive community they are studying in small groups.  Students will be expected to include the following components in their presentations:  Use appropriate facts and relevant, descriptive details to support in teaching the culture, traditions and expressions of a gender expansive BIPOC community to the whole class.  Relate gender fluidity to the group of people they are presenting on.  Discuss the impact that colonialism has had on gender expression within this community.
 Reflection: Students will take notes on the presentations of their peers, developing an understanding of each of the gender expansive peoples being taught about by classmates. In turn, students will respond to questions in a graphic organizer designated to help them order their learning with regards to all communities presented on. Following the presentations, the teacher will facilitate a community circle. Here students will have an opportunity to demonstrate their learning by answering the following questions: 1) What is gender fluidity? 2) How has colonialism affected gender fluidity in different ethnic communities around the world? 3) How have these communities upheld their culture in the face of colonialism?
Materials and Resources:
- Device with access to the internet (Chromebook, Macbook, Ipad, Desktop etc..) -Student Information Powerpoint -Graphic Organizer -Age appropriate informational texts on each of the gender expansive communities included within this lesson.

Ethnic Studies Outcomes:
Students will be able to connect gender beliefs and traditions to a variety of ethnic communities around the world. They will learn the importance of acceptance and gain an understanding of the BIPOC LGBTQ+ community. This lesson focuses on the intersectionality of identities. Students will strengthen their reading skills by analyzing non-fiction texts and pulling out important information for their audience. Students will also have the opportunity to practice their speaking skills through oral presentations.
Resources: https://www.baaits.org/about https://lgbtqhealth.ca/community/two-spirit.php https://www.nps.gov/subjects/lgbtqheritage/upload/lgbtqtheme-nativeamerica.pdf (p.5) https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/2017/11/181624/gender-fluid-examples-history https://listverse.com/2015/10/21/10-examples-of-nonbinary-genders-throughout-history/ https://nonbinary.wiki/wiki/Gender-variant_identities_worldwide https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-53573764 https://www.pbs.org/independentlens/content/two-spirits_map-html/ https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/third-gender-gay-rights-equality/ http://www.lgbtqhistory.org/lesson/native-americans-gender-roles-and-two-spirit-people/ https://www.pbs.org/independentlens/films/two-spirits/ https://www.lgbtqnation.com/2016/02/trans-history-101-transgender-expression-in-ancient-times/3/ https://www.redeemer-cincy.org/uploads/images/gender-diversity-in-indigenous-cultures_205.pdf
Optional Extension
In their groups, ask students to conduct further research on the gender expansive people they are studying, in order to find information answering the following question:
How has their research connected to the lives, experiences, and movements of people in their own community?
**Application of the sixth guiding value, principle and outcome of ethnic studies:
Connect ourselves to past and contemporary resistance movements for social justice on global and local levels to ensure a truer democracy.
Students can create multimodal presentations using visual slides, videos, photos, etc. and present them to the class in response to this extension question.

