From: Shana Bass Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 10:11 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Dear Educators,
Thank you for taking the lead in developing California's ethnic studies curriculum. It is much needed as xenophobia and racism remains a huge, detrimental issue in the world, the U.S. and California today.
I am writing to ask you to take the inclusion of the experience of Jews in this curriculum very seriously.
Antisemitism is very real, painful, and alive in the world, the United States, and California.
My daughter's ELEMENTARY school in San Diego's north county was just a few weeks ago the target of despicable anti-Semitic vandalism on January 6, 2021.
The same day white supremacists, wearing hateful anti Semitic novelty shirts and body art stormed the Capitol - 6MWE and Camp Auschwitz Staff logos are just as damaging and despicable as nooses.
This long-standing hate against Jews must be acknowledged, unmasked, and stopped. This curriculum is the only way to do that. Please use as much of the ADL's curriculum as possible. BINAH at the very least.
If this Ethnic Studies curriculum relegates the continued prominence of anti-semitism to a minor footnote, it is complicit in its continuance.
The hate against Jews is real, and rampant in our California communities. It is detrimental to our childrens' sense of well-being and safety.
Just as this curriculum assesses the experience of African-Americans against the backdrop of slavery, so must the curriculum assess the experience of Jews against the national and international backdrop of not only the Holocaust (and America's initial refusal to help Jews escape) that remains prominent in the minds of the hateful, but also the centuries of anti-semitism that preceded it.
At the very least, I respectfully ask that California's Ethnic Studies Curriculum include at least the two existing lesson plans about Jewish Americans and anti-Semitism. Work with rabbis to make these and hopefully more as robust as possible.
Please add the ADL's BINAH lesson as well. Building Insights to Navigate Antisemitism and Hate.
Please use the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's complete definition of antisemitism, which the European Union and U.S. State Department adopted during the Obama Administration.

Thank you for removing an earlier draft which included antisemitic and anti-Israel bias.
Our future is finally hopeful at the moment, but recent and past events show us all that there is much work to be done to combat the hate against Jews that is all too real and far too Prominent and accepted.
This is NOT who we are or who we want to be. Jews are the first ones to stand up for other minority groups. Please grant Jews the same favor in return.
Thank you for your hard work, your time, and your consideration.
As a political science Ph.D with a focus on Race and Ethnic politics in the United States, and a dissertation entitled The Multicultural Moment: The Politics of the Multicultural Movement in the United States, I am happy to be of service to you however I can.
Respectfully,
Dr. Shana Bass Sonnenshein

