From: Sullivan Israel Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 10:52 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Public Comment on Ethnic Studies Curriculum
I highly disagree with the curriculum in its current form. I of course believe that the wider goal of the curriculum as a whole--to teach diversity and understanding--is a noble one, but the way the curriculum is currently written will only serve to divide the citizens of California into more isolated groups than they already are. Forcing white kids to feel guilty and apologize for "wrongs" that they never took apart in, but were committed in the past by people who happened to have the same color skin they have is just as racists as assuming any negative stereotype of an ethnic or religious group as a whole. How does this fix anything? How does telling Hispanic and Black kids they are victims of their fellow classmates and citizens foster "unity?" Children who grow up with this curriculum will all come out thinking the world is against them-the white kids angry and confused for being accused of crimes they never committed and the black and Hispanic kids for being told that the whole world is against them and wants them to fail. Using such broad strokes to paint ethnic groups as either "oppressed" or "privileged" ignores peoples' most defining quality: that we are all unique individuals, responsible for our own actions, having given free will to do good or evil. America was founded to protect these principles, not erase them as this curriculum proposes to do.
The section on Jews is deplorable. The language it uses, in terms of dividing Jews into "white-passing" and not "white passing" seems not too far off from what the Nazis promoted when they claimed that many Jews hid and pretended to be German. The motives of the authors of the new curriculum may come from a very different place, but they end up by seeming to come to a similar conclusion. This type of language and unaccpetable and Anti-Semitic at its core, no matter what the original intention.
For a more in depth analysis on this, I urge the authors to read this article published today in the Jewish Journal: Jews Have Until Thursday to Influence Ethnic Studies Curriculum (jewishjournal.com)
--Sullivan Israel

