In response to the Ethnic Studies Curriculum. 21 January 2021
1. Unity is the theme for our new president. We need to foster UNITY among our many peoples of different races, cultures and religions. Why would the curriculum promote disharmony by celebrating anti-semitism by promoting such leaders of anti-semitism as the Third World Liberation Front and other anti-semites such as Adolf Hitler?
2. IT is time celebrate and accept all peoples. When God created us, he did not designate which race or group was better than another.
3. In the days of Polio, the world was terribly fearful for children contracting polio and becoming paralyzed and possibly in an iron lung. Why not write about Dr, Jones Salk, a Jewish scientist who created an inactivated vaccine first used in 1955 that stopped polio. He did this for all people. He did not single out a group of people for the prevention. We need to create positive acceptance of all people.
4. Why would it be necessary to differentiate "lighter skinned Jews"from"darker skinned Jews" and call them privileged? That so called privilege may not be an asset in other areas of the world.
5. I have often heard on TV that "lighter skinned blacks are more privileged, hirable and promotable than "darker skinned" blacks. Is this not "privileged?" Maybe it would be more important to write about Martin Luther Kings, marvelous and beautiful statement:
6. " I HAVE A DREAM THAT MY FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WILL ONE DAY LIVE IN A NATION WHERE THEY WILL NOT BE JUDGED BY THE COLOR OF THEIR SKIN BUT BY THE CONTENT OF THEIR CHARACTER."
7. There are great leaders in all races, cultures and religions. Let us build up that which is good in these groups and how they have improved the world and cease promoting negative distinctions between peoples. We all live on this planet and we need to love and respect one another. This language in privileges only divides and give fodder to those who want to "hate" other groups. Let us seek the best in all groups and teach that to children.
Thank you for hearing me. I am a retired Department of Defense Schools teacher, principal of elementary, junior high schools and high schools and an assistant superintendent,. In this capacity, in our schools with very mixed populations I have seldom had to address discrimination issues, thankfully. I have found that most children are very accepting in their differences and get along very well. Why do we want to create division when they are so accepting of one another today? Let them hear of the great leaders in the races and religion. I am not Jewish, but I support the Jewish people as well as all other peoples.
Sincerely, Dr. Joan Klose

