From: Charles Mau Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 11:51 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fwd: Comments and suggestions on ESMC
Dear IQC Chair and Members,
On behalf of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance, one of the oldest civil rights national organizations for Chinese Americans, I have the following comments and suggestions for the K-12 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum presently under review:
1. California is the state that has the most ethnically diverse population in America, with 39% Latino, 37% white, 15% Asian American, 6% African American, 3% multiracial, and < 1% American Indian or Pacific Islander, according to the 2018 American Community Survey. The 2018 estimates also found that 27% (or 10.6 million) of Californians are foreign born--this share is larger than that of any state and double the share nationwide (14%). The leading countries of origin for California immigrants are Mexico (4.0 million), the Philippines (848,000), China (798,000), Vietnam (515,000), India (532,000), El Salvador (462,000), and Korea (312,000). In recent years, immigration from Asia has outpaced immigration from Latin America by a two-to-one margin. Looking to the future, the emphasis of the curriculum on the discipline of African Americans ahead of the other groups appears outdated. Notwithstanding the fact that African Americans had the longest history among the various groups of landing on this continent and being mistreated by the whites, the text of ESMC in its present form gives a somewhat distorted impression of the situation here in California. In our view, more focus should be placed on Asian Americans after Latinos, the largest group, in the writeup.
2. For Chinese Americans and their history of being persecuted in this country simply because of their ethnicity, the prominent historical event is the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act which is nowhere mentioned in the curriculum writeup. Therefore we suggest adding this to the topics cited in Chapter 3 section entitled "Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies". Specifically, Lines 561-564 may be modified to read "Topics may include: immigration, intergenerational conflict, the myth of the model minority, the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II, the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act that denied Chinese immigrants US citizenship because of their race, U.S. Supreme Court Case Lau v. Nichols regarding the right to an equal education, the unique experiences of Southwest Asians.......".
3. Introducing ethnic studies to K-12, particularly the lower grades like K-6, is quite challenging in stimulating interest from students in these grades. One suggestion is to introduce illustrative colorful drawings by young people to the classrooms, which are easily identified by the young children in these classes. Chinese American Citizens Alliance, together with Chinese American Museum in Los Angeles, holds biennial art competitions targeting K-12 student participants. The last one held in 2019 netted quite a few excellent artworks illustrating the contributions of Chinese Americans in the development of America, including construction of the First Transcontinental Railroad and the contributions in various professional and cultural fields

by subsequent generations of these pioneering railroad workers. One of the winning artworks is attached for your reference, and two in a follow-up message. Likewise the same type of artworks illustrating the histories of the other ethnic groups can be used in the K-6 classrooms for their ethnic studies lessons.
We sincerely hope the IQC Chair and members seriously consider the comments and suggestions above, and make relevant modifications to the ESMC text.
Thank you, and we wish you every success in the ESMC review.
With warmest regards,
Tak Charles Mau National Vice-President of Education Chinese American Citizens Alliance https://www.cacanational.org

