From: Cindy Feit Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 6:56 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Curriculum comments
To whom it may concern,
My name is Cindy Feit. I have been following the development of this curriculum for the last several years. I find it interesting and sad how many times the Jewish community has to speak up for itself, demanding to be treated by a minority group.
As an elementary school teacher in South Los Angeles, it was truly eye opening how little people know about Jews. Not only do students have almost no exposure to Jewish people, Judaism or its history, but the TEACHERS and staff have little to no knowledge whatsoever, either. They believe stereotypes and generalizations to be true because of a total lack of exposure. A working professional used the term "Jew it out" in front of me, on school grounds. I took the time to discuss it with him, but the task cannot be up to individual Jews, especially if what students will be learning in classrooms will be in contradiction.
To depict Jewish people as a privileged group of oppressors because of conflicts in most recent history is to damn Jews to more generations of hate. And it is to deny massive parts of human history, while instilling hateful bias in our children through their education.
There are still people alive in this country who were witness to the horrors of the Holocaust, both from the military side and from the side of the victims of the terrors of Nazism. The Nazis scapegoated Jews, blaming them for the country's problems, in order to make it easier for their citizens to accept the systematic, and nearly successful, extermination of European Jews. It was because of that abomination that Jews were granted a national homeland - because every country in which we lived tried to kill or expel us.
It is atrocious that this curriculum is also white-washing and dismissing the historic oppression of the Jewish people, both in this country and throughout world history. In the 50s, there were still signs that read "No Blacks, No Dogs, No Jews"
Let us not forget that on January 6th, when the Capitol was stormed, Nazi flags were waved next to Confederate flags. If we do not educate our children about the history of this "hidden" minority, they will simply believe what they hear and see about Jews, without any guarantee to the . THOSE WHO DO NOT LEARN FROM HISTORY ARE DOOMED TO REPEAT IT.
Jews are an HISTORICALLY OPPRESSED MINORITY. The fact that we have found some modicum of success and belonging in this country does not erase or negate that past. The new curriculum, as it is, paints Jewish people as one color, one group, when in fact there are Jewish people of every color and from every nation.

I strongly urge you to consider a more BALANCED curriculum, one that is less political and shares broader historical facts, rather than one that takes the side of one group over another.
Thank you for your time, -Cindy Feit, M.Ed

