National Honorary Board US Senator Mazie Hirono US Senator Tammy Duckworth Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi Congressman Mark Takano Congressman Mike Honda, Former Congressman Norman Mineta, Former Congresswoman Shelley Berkley, Former Congressman Ed Royce, Former Congressman George Miller, Former Congressman Jeff Denham, Former Congresswoman Mimi Walters, Former Congressman Ami Bera Congressman Andy Kim Congresswoman Anna Eshoo Congressman Bobby Scott Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa, Former Congresswoman Doris Matsui Congressman Doug LaMalfa Congressman Eric Swalwell Congresswoman Grace Meng Congressman Jerry McNerney Congressman John Garamendi Congresswoman Judy Chu Congressman Kevin McCarthy Congressman Lloyd Doggett Congressman Ro Khanna Congressman Ted Lieu Congressman TJ Cox, Former Congressman Tom McClintock Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Retired Gov. Jerry Brown, Retired
National Governing Board Kenneth Fong, Chair C.C. Yin, Founder, Chair Emeritus Albert Wang, Vice Chair Hsing Kung, CA State Chair Sandy Chau, National Civic Leadership Chair Joel Wong, Secretary Victoria Li, Member Vincent Wang, National President Regina Yin, Member Michelle Wang, Northeast Region Chair

APAPA
Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Association Community Education Foundation (APAPA-CEF)
Empowering and Engaging Asian Pacific Islander Americans
Non-profit organization 501(c) 3 Tax ID No. 55-0849384
January 20, 2021
State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
Dear State Board of Education,
Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Association (APAPA) is a non-profit, non-partisan 501(c)(3) organization. Founded in 2001, APAPA has grown into a nationwide organization with over 30,000 members and 30 chapters. Its mission is to empower Asian and Pacific Islander (API) Americans through education, leadership, and active participation in civic and public affairs.
APAPA supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.

Corporate Advisory Board Henry Perea, Chevron Sandy Chau/Anthony Ng, CLUSA Linda Shim/Lorena Hernandez, Comcast Amit Pal/John Costa, PG&E C.C. Yin/Regina Yin, McDonald's/Yin Foundation, Brenda Wright/Kevin Barri/Karen Woodruff, Wells Fargo Bruce Newton, Bank of the West Rhonda Johnson/Jason Chan, AT&T Kenneth Fong, Kenson Ventures Rudy Reyes/Sophia Garcia, Verizon Mitch Mitchell, Sempra Energy Jaime Huff/Gaddi Vasquez, Southern Calif. Edison Wes Lujan/Francisco Castillo, UPR Mark Martinez, CA Strawberry Commission Dr. Alvin Cheung, CA Northstate University Jay Adair, Copart Mary Yin Liu, Golden Arch Enterprises Victoria Horton, CBBD Dora Wong, Coca-Cola Herman Rowland, Jelly Belly Lidia Martinez, Southwest Airlines Jennifer Scanlon, Kaiser Permanente
National Advisory Board Amy Tong, Dale Minami, Maeley Tom, Michael Yamaki Mona Pasquil, Senator Jim Nielsen, Willie Brown

2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
"Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.

National Executive Committee Victoria Li, Chair, Partnership & Budgeting Yen Marshall, Vice Chair, Operations Vincent Wang, Vice Chair, Website & Voter Reg. HP Wang, Vice Chair, Strategies Andy Li, New Chapter Development Michelle Wang, Internship Programs Henry Yin, Appointments Ron Cho, Membership Lily Qian, Media & Annual Report Albert Wang, Board Member Joel Wong, Board Member Rachel Yang, Board Member
Legal Counsel: Esq. Lance Ito, Ruthe Ashley, Stephen Murphy

Sincerely,
Kenneth Fong Chair

C.C. Yin Founder & Chair Emeritus

Yen Marshall National Executive Director

Website: www.apapa.org | Email: info@apapa.org

01/04/21

