From: Will Beazley Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 3:43 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Critical Race Theory in Schools?
Surely you cannot be serious. The fact that the current ESMC is infused with Critical Race Theory (CRT) is as unethical as it is absurd. Have you not heard that CRT is a postmodernist reworking of Marxism? which replaces socioeconomic classes with identity classes? Forcing the youth of our state to swallow this thinly veiled communist philosophy should be unthinkable. It is difficult for me to believe you are even considering implementing this ESMC.
Are you not aware of the fact that CRT claims that all white people are unalterably, inherently racist simply on account of the fact that they have white skin? can you not see how this claim is intrinsically and paradoxically racially prejudiced itself? Are you not aware of the fact that CRT preaches that all non-white, non-male, and non-heterosexual people are the alleged victims of white, heterosexual males? regardless of the actual quality of the former's lives? How can you even be contemplating the notion of telling all the white children of our Californian schools that they are racist? How can you even be considering the idea of telling all the male children that they are sexist? Indoctrinating the children of California with this blatantly racist dogma is simply unforgivable.
Are you not aware of the fact that CRT claims that such statements as "2+2=4" are merely artifacts of a "systemically racist" society? and that they argue that "2+2=5" is an equally valid statement? The postmodernist roots of CRT are based on the notion that there is no such thing as objective truth, and that the only truth is that we live in a systemically racist society, with the aforementioned qualities of their various identity classes. As a mathematics teacher myself, I will refuse to teach such nonsense as "2+2=5" to my students. How literally Orwellian must Critical Race Theorists become before their ludicrousness is obvious?
I, along with many others, will continue to petition this abhorrent attempt to brainwash the children of our state if you do not refrain from doing so. Sadly, CRT has already infected much of the Democrat Party's core politics. That said, it has not done so within other political parties. Over the 20 years I have been teaching in public and private educational institutions of California, I have carefully refrained from asserting my political points of view in classrooms. Yet, here you are about to not only mention the political views of CRT, but even require them of our students? Unbelievable. Completely unbelievable.
CRT is contrary to education itself, given its postmodernist rejection of all forms of objective truth outside of their own racist ideologies. Flooding our classrooms with their racist, antiscience, anti-logic, and ideologically fascist propaganda is not only beneath that for which our state stands, but also that of our country. As such, I urge you to reconsider what will inevitably become one of your greatest blunders before it contaminates our future via our children.
Sincerely,

Will Beazley Mathematics Teacher, Tutor, and Curriculum Developer

