From: Stan Brin Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 11:58 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Stan Brin [contact info redacted]
Comments on the Model Curriculum Model Curriculum
While much improved over its overtly racist earlier versions, the current Model Curriculum is still antiSemitic:
1. As used in the Model Curriculum is highly problematic. the term intersectionality or its adjective intersectional. In practice, it is used as a buzzword for anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism. For example, "Intersectional Feminism" generally means "feminists who support the destruction of Israel."
2. There is no mention of anti-Zionism nor of the IHRA Working Definition of Anti-Semitism, adopted throughout Europe and gaining momentum in the United States. The IHRA Working Definition is the benchmark definition of anti-Semitism apparently because it defines many forms of anti-Zionism to be specifically anti-Semitic.
While most leftist groups oppose any confluence between Anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism, this is not the mainstream view. Any disproportionate, obsessive, or eroticized hatred of Israel, the use of fabricated anti-Israel tropes or propaganda, or the compulsive demonization of its policies or people must be considered anti-Semitic.
3. There is no mention of ethnic anti-Semitism, such as anti-Semitism in the African-American community.
4. There is no mention of anti-Jewish prejudice in the entertainment industry and resulting assimilationist pressure.
In addition:
1. There is no mention of anti-white prejudice of any kind.
2. The following statement is a racially motivated lie:
Kemakatzin Mochihua is from the American Indian Nahuatl language, a language original to Mexico, El Salvador, and the Southwest United States, and it means "Si Se Puede" or "Yes It Can Be Made to

Happen" in the Nahuatl language. It was taught at Plaza de La Raza in Los Angeles California, an arts and culture center which was founded in 1970. Nahuatle was never spoken in what is now the United States. Nahuatle was the spoken language of the Aztecs and is native to central Mexico, where it is still spoken. Southwestern native peoples spoke and still speak various indigenous languages. Mexican nationalists often portray Nahuatle as native to the United State in order to prove that Mexican-Americans are indigenous. In El Salvador, the indigenous languages are Mayan.

