From: Mitchell Dubin Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 11:36 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Rampant Antisemitism in Ethnic Studies Curriculum
California Education Officials,
The proposed ethnic studies curriculum reads, in regards to the Jews, as if it were designed by disciples of history's most virulent anti-Semites. Just as the Nazi party taught, this curriculum asserts that Jews are usurping "white privelege" by pretending to be white and hiding in plainsight, sometimes by, according to the proposed curriculum, "this practice of namechanging [which] continues to the present day." The explicit declaration that Jews change "their position on the racial hierarchy...gaining racial privelege" is extremely reflective of thousands of years of anti-Semitic tropes that seek to describe Jews as imposters and greedy seekers of unearned power.
This curriculum only describes ONE ethnic group as having "privilege" on account of "whitepassing" or "conditional whiteness": the Jews. So, the same lack of whiteness that sent millions of Jews to the gas chambers of the Nazis merely decades ago has now been turned around 180 degrees by the State of California to suggest that Jews are the only ethnic group that has "privilege" because many are "white-passing?"
To specifically target Jews for their "privilege" is to propagate the world's oldest hatred to the students of the State of California in the 21st century. This curriculum, if implemented, will intentionally raise yet another generation of anti-Semites who will grow up to classify Jews as the oppressor, or even worse, as the "other."
It is my understanding that many Jewish groups have reached out to this body to condemn the anti-Semtisim in the proposed curriculum. As an individual student and native Californian, I feel the need to reach out on my own accord and respond to the anti-Semitism in these pages with a strong request for the re-evaluation of the ways in which this document considers Jews. If I grow up and have kids of my own, I could not, in good conscience, allow them to attend California schools that systematically re-enforce anti-Semtisim in the ways propagated by this curriculum.
Signed, Mitchell Bryan Dubin Current college student and Los Angeles native

