From: Patti Larsen Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 4:08 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] FEEDBACK ON MANDATORY ETHINIC STUDIES FOR CALIFORNIA
Dear members of the SBE,
I urge you to remove the divisive, narrow ideology that permeates the model curriculum. This approach will further divide our citizens and our nation. ALL groups (not just the 4 target groups) should be recognized as equal and for the special talents that their culture brings to our country. We can celebrate our diversity without denigrating those who had the courage to create a republic with liberty and justice for all. This curriculum defeats that noble purpose.
Below is a quote from the WSJ article on this topic:
"Excluded from California's model curriculum are the white ethnic groups (Italians, Irish, Poles and so forth) studied fruitfully by scholars such as Nathan Glazer, Daniel P. Moynihan and Michael Novak. Also largely excluded are groups like Jews and Armenians who were persecuted abroad and sought refuge in America. The groups that dominate the curriculum are AfricanAmericans, Latinos, Asian-Americans and American Indians.
By focusing on these four and treating them solely as victims, the curriculum misses the
opportunity to convey to students that groups at the bottom of the social and economic ladder can
climb, making use of their cultural assets and the opportunities the country affords them. This
curriculum teaches the opposite. It attaches moral opprobrium to success by instructing teachers
and students that the Jews and Irish in America have secured white "racial privilege.""
In closing, I urge you to please refrain from causing any further division among the people of our great country. You are held to a higher account because of your influence over our children. You have a great responsibility and you cannot make a decision without doing your research. Please wake up and not allow yourselves to be influenced by a dangerous ideology! Dare to question the origins of Critical Race Theory, which by its very nature is racist.
Very sincerely, Patricia Larsen San Diego, California

