From: Whitney Rubin Sent: Wednesday, January 20, 2021 9:55 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Again I have to email on Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
To Whom It May Concern:
Amid this pandemic, learning that the anti-Jewish language still included in the model curriculum, this is yet another blow.
The governor did not approve the last version and here we are again. Are the writers of the curriculum so entrenched in thinking of Jews as "privileged" that they don't see how much Jews are still "others." I am always cautious with new people wondering if I should let them know I am Jewish. The curriculum does not consider what it is like to be a Jewish person. Yes, I've been the first Jewish person that people have met. I've been told by a friend's parent that when their daughter was young she was told: "que mala judia eres" when her Catholic child was misbehaving.
I will not send my child to a public school in CA that teaches this hateful curriculum where he will question who he is as a Jewish person. As a Mexican friend once said to me: "I will teach my younger sister what it means to be Mexican before someone else teachers her in a way that doesn't elevate her tradition in the way it should be."
As Pamela Paresky and Joel Finkelstein have written, " Nazi curricula taught that in order to usurp white privilege, Jews pretended to be white, hiding in plain sight. "Just as it is often hard to tell a toadstool from an edible mushroom," read a Nazi children's book, "so too it is often very hard to recognize the Jew..." Depicting Jews as imposters and appropriators of privilege -- people who pose as something to which they have no legitimate claim -- has been a frequent anti-Semitic theme throughout history. A recent large scale analysis of modern anti-Semitic disinformation from the Network Contagion Research Institute (NCRI) suggests that this same conspiracy theory is endorsed by twenty-firstcentury anti-Semites of all kinds.
But surely, a modern-day ethnic studies curriculum wouldn't perpetuate the same idea?"
Yet they write " Jews are the only group in California's proposed curriculum for whom the term "privilege" is used. Let that sink in. Jews are the only group in California's proposed curriculum for whom the term "privilege" is used. (Do your own word search in

the curriculum for the word "privilege" if you'd like to see for yourself.) The word appears elsewhere, but not attached to any other ethnic group."
Thank you for reading and I hope you will make a better choice with this curriculum.
Sincerely,
Whitney

