From: Harriet Schlacht > Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 5:30 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Dire Plea
Dear ES board Member,
I am writing to you as a parent to 2 teens and 1 fledgling adult.
I am a Jewish parent, a Jewish woman.
I also worked as a speech language pathologist in the public school system. I have supported many underprivileged and ethnically diverse students, and continue to do so. And I do not discriminate. I give my best to each mother who crosses my path.
As a person who does so, I am hurt by the thought that this draft includes so many antisemetic points, and frankly I am downright fearful for Jewish students and families.
We are also a minority. We make up .01% of the population yet make up a disproportionately high percentage of violent antisemitic acts around this country. I believe it's at roughly 40%, this can be verified if you are curious.
The draft as it stands, include people who are clearly and unapologetically anti- Jewish. All you need is to google their background. I do not understand why that would be tolerated if this new curriculum is meant to be fair for all peoples. Would this be desirable for any group? To include point people who are anti black/ Native American/ Arab/ Asian??
If I told you my families personal stories of fleeing and persecution, I'm sure you would come to see that --- we need protection, not demonization. No culture is free if unconscious citizens who harm. Alternatively, ALL cultures have something special to offer. We do tooa we have been around longer than the Romans and Greek civilizations. And for that, I am proud to call myself a Jew as an African American should feel proud to call herself a Black woman. I feel the same.
Hatred of any people - should not be tolerated. If that's is indeed truly the goal of this new curriculum.
I am, frankly, scared for the future of Jewish students in this state of CA, and the rest of this country if this curriculum spreads.
Please ask yourself - Wouldn't you be if you were me?
Sincerely,

Harriet Schlacht

