From: Steven Silberman Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 6:56 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Evaluation- Public comment
Dear State Board of Education,
It has come to my attention that an Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is under consideration. I understand the goals. Having read only some of the Ethnic Studies Appendix A - Sample lessons ( I invested 2.5 hours in reading), it appears that the focus is to highlight racial groups which have been marginalized and underrepresented in many areas of American/Californian life. One overarching premise is that 'White" or European history and culture are so pervasive as to require a counterbalancing ethnic studies program to better educate students.
I am concerned that the focus is to paint people only in racial terms. There are many communities who have been marginalized because of factors other than race. Furthermore, ethnicity is not only contingent upon race. Consider Romani, Ashkenazi Jews, Poles and Italians to name a few. These people, too, have ethnic identities.
If your goal is to teach Ethnic studies then the curriculum should not portray people only through the lens of race. Rather, instruction should be provided to highlight the challenges and uniqueness of each ethnic community. Many communities across our great land do not view themselves through a superimposed structure of skin color or other physical characteristics, but through their own self-awareness of identification. In light of the devastating destruction done in our own recent history by the Nazis who perpetrated extremes of wickedness based upon 'race science', we should exercise great care in our schools when emphasizing or focusing on race and should instead amplify all that we have gained from the many communities which have contributed to our nation.
I submit that your cherished concern for educating our young people include how to better educate our students with sensitivity and humanity; not by reinforcing modes of separating groups but instead by bringing individuals together.
I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
Sincerely, Steven Silberman ( former resident of LAUSD, and now living in Alabama, brother of a current preschool teacher in LA)

