From: Sivia Van Gundy Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 12:00 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Anti Semitism in the Ethnic Studies Curriculum describing Jews as "privileged"
Dear California State Deptartment of Eductation: To describe Jews as Privileged is a ridiculous statement as is stated in the Ethnic studies curriculum. Unless you consider being murdered while worshipping privileged. Unless you consider the increasing hate speech in this country and in California and having to tolerate that as being privileged. See references here: https://www.adl.org/resources/reports/global-anti-semitism-select-incidents-in2019 The sample lesson on Jews, recommending students discuss how Jews "sometimes have experienced conditional whiteness and privilege." Though the proposed curriculum touches on the experiences of several other ethnic groups, the word privilege is applied to only Jews.
The draft also highlights the contributions to the Arab-American experience of several prominent antiSemites, from the late journalist Helen Thomas to the Palestinian activist Linda Sarsour and Rep. Ilhan Omar (D., Minn.).
I agree with Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, who called the curriculum a "tragedy," describing it as "woke gone wild with skin color and specific groups installed in a new pecking order."
Others, including Lawfare Project executive director Brooke Goldstein, called it an "embarrassment."
"The Jewish people are the oldest and most persecuted ethnic group in history," Goldstein said. "according to this so-called `ethnic studies' curriculum, we are `privileged' while antisemitism and antisemitic themes are celebrated."
Please reconsider after interviewing some holocaust survivors or children of holocaust survivors, or the Jews California who have to worship with police officers standing guard at High Holy Day Services because of anti semitic threats before you release this tragedy of a curriculum and fan the flames of hate.
Sivia Van Gundy

