State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
January 20, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
My name is Bomion Spring Kim, the Program Director at Korean Center, Inc. (KCI) a non-profit organization dedicated to serving the community by providing informational, educational, and social services to underserved immigrant and other communities in the San Francisco Bay Area
On behalf of all members of KCI, I support the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, and equity are as follows:
1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data.
2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course.
3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group.
4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
The history of Korean Center, Inc. (KCI) reflects the evolution of the Korean community in the San Francisco Bay Area. San Francisco has always been a principal port of entry for Korean immigrants to America and in 1974 a group of community leaders who recognized the need for a non-profit organization to manage and myriad needs of newly arrived Koreans founded the Korean Advisory Council (KAC), which undertook projects of acculturation, employment and language training. These projects coalesced as the Multi-Service Center for Koreans (MSCK) in 1975 and later in 1989 the name of the organization was changed to Korean Center, Inc. (KCI) The emergence of a second generation of Korean American resulted in increasing demand for its educational program. It led KCI to provide Korean language and also a new master in Korean Studies programs to the community in 1994. In 2012 KCI was awarded an affiliation with the
1362 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 l 1-415-441-1881 l www.koreancentersf.org

Sejong Institute, the newly formed international educational program of the government of South Korea, starting to provide Korean language and cultural programs with materials and standards of the King Sejong Institute. To this date, KCI provides Korean language andd cultural programs and events to the SF Bay Area community and social services to the Korean seniors in SF. "Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, We believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community. Thank you. Sincerely,
Bomion Spring Kim springk@koreancentersf.org Program Director Korean Center, Inc.
1362 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 l 1-415-441-1881 l www.koreancentersf.org

