From: Lindsey Troy Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 1:13 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove antisemitic language
I am disgusted by the antisemitic tropes being perpetuated within the proposed ethnic studies curriculum. Within this proposed curriculum, Jews are the only group are described by the word "privilege". To say this is offensive doesn't begin to do this negligent behavior justice.
Antisemitism is raging like a wild fire across the globe and on the internet. This poison is insidious and sneaky, and now is creeping into the curriculum of one of the most progressive states in the world? This is unacceptable. This betrays truth and history. The idea that lightskinned Jews have privilege robs us of the vital protections afforded to other marginalized communities. We have been mocked for millennia for our noses and Jewish features, for not being aryan. We have been ethnically cleansed for millennia. To say that light-skinned Jewish people have any sort of privilege, when millions of us were put into ovens less than a century ago for not being white, not only betrays the vulnerable and Jewish population, but it betrays history, truth, and true progressive values.
The Jewish population makes up only 0.2% of the world, and only 2% of the U.S. The Jewish population is one of the tiniest, most vulnerable minorities in the world and still hasn't recovered from the Holocaust. The Jewish people were the primary targets of the bloodiest genocide in human history, whose victims still walk among us. 1/3 of Holocaust survivors still live in poverty, in Israel and elsewhere. To say that this ashkenazi population has any sort of privilege is no better than nazi propaganda. This language MUST be erased from this curriculum.
If this current proposed curriculum isn't fixed, which perpetuates dangerous antisemitic tropes, this country will be poisoned by antisemitism and turn on its Jewish population. It has happened time and time again throughout history. It will happen if the Jewish people aren't given the same protection as any other marginalized group. It's already happening. No country that turns on its Jewish population has fared well after.
This is a disgrace. Education about Israel must be fair and not biased. The Jewish people have endless historical ties to that land, with a plethora of historical documents and antiquities to back that up. This story must not be erased. You must portray the Jewish story with as much respect, truth, and accuracy as any other marginalized group gets. Unbiased education about Israel is essential.
The Jewish people are among the top two targets of white supremacists. Jewish people and black folks are the targets--neither are seen as white or `aryan'. The Jewish community has fought so hard to bring progressive values to this country, Ruth Bader Ginsburg being one of them. If you betray her legacy, and betray the Jewish people and our story, you betray the truth and this democracy.

I have attached a screen grab of a post from a lawyer in Los Angeles who openly spews antisemitic poison onto the internet, with no consequence. This is from a couple days ago. This happens every day. The Jewish people need the protections that other marginalized communities are afforded, no matter our skin tone.
California has to do better than this. IT MUST.
Fix this curriculum and be honest about the antisemitism Jews have faced for millennia. Don't betray history and our country's values.

