From: Jeffrey Hutter Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 4:29 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] comment on ethnic studies curriculum
I want to register my strong concern and disapproval of the proposed ethnic studies curriculum. I am sure that qualified educators and social justice specialists have presented detailed explanations of the problems with this proposal and its underlying assumptions. In brief, the proposal is flawed in its explanation of history, perniciously biased in its causal assumptions and most problematically, lacking in real moral or ethical reasoning and appreciation for the emotional effects of this approach. It is so flawed that I don't know if it is possible to salvage it or it should simply be scrapped and a more neutral plan be written by a qualified research group more familiar with the complexities of race, class, ethnicity in America, good pedagogy and psychological research.
As I look over this proposal, I find myself asking if the committee wants to educate students about the various ethnic and racial groups within the U.S. in a way that will reduce self-shaming and bias, encourage inter-group understanding and appreciation of differences and similarities or, rigidify ethnic, religious and racial stereotyping, promoting mono-causal conspiracy theories of their status in America? For example, if I were a Jewish child in a school using this curriculum, would I feel called out, that I deserve to be shamed and isolated and that any bias, prejudice or hatred directed against me or my ethnic group would be deserved and justified? If I were a child POC, would I feel empowered? Would I conclude that I wanted to learn how to collaborate and cooperate with other students who are not members of my ethnic group, or that I would be best off competing against other ethnicities and racial identities for social status and jobs?
In summary, this approach to dealing with America's social and economic ills is pragmatically and morally a destructive approach to child education. It lacks real empathy, sympathy for its effects on real children or an appreciation of the actualities and complexity of the history of race, ethnicity and economics in the U.S. (or elsewhere, for that matter). It seems based on ideological assumptions. It might be well-meaning, but I can't see how it will actually make things better for our children.
Sincerely,
Jeffrey Hutter, PhD Clinical Psychologist, (Former) Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, Neuropsychiatric Institute, UCLA*
*Institutional affiliation for identification purposes only; all opinions are that of the writer.

