ESMC Comments
Preface
Footnote 1, Race (page 4): If race is "a neocolonial social construction" based on "a Eurocentric biological fallacy", why does the ESMC continue to further cement this philosophy by the use of the terms "racial" or "racist"? The ESMC should dispense with categorizing anyone by "race" or separating "persons of color" from so-called "white people." Scientifically, there is no such thing as a person who is truly "white", just as no one is truly "black." Encourage students to embrace ALL people with dividing them by "color."
Line 76, (page 5): Why is Islamophobia included in an ethnic studies course? Islam is a religion; no one is forced to be Muslim or born Muslim. Remove references to Islam unless you include examples of persecution against other religious groups.
Lines 82-92 (page 6): Our nation is a democratic republic, not a democracy. Why does the ESCM emphasize that students need to be equipped for "a changing democratic society"? How is our democratic republic changing? What are examples of "democratic institutions"?
Lines 127-130 (page 7): The Third World Liberation Front (TWLF) used violence and intimidation to force change (ex. James Vasko, police officers). These tactics are similar to a terrorist group and are clearly not "democratic." Use a better example for promoting diversity and inclusion through peaceful methods.
Lines 144-146, (page 8): What does ethnic studies have to do with gender or sexuality studies?
Chapter 1 Line 48, (page 4): Why do we seek to "empower" students, when the ESMC is supposed to challenge "systems of power" (line 22). Students need to be educated and equipped with practical life and work skills, not empowered. Define "empowerment" as used in the ESMC.

Line 80-81, (page 5): Stating that only "non-whites" share "common experiences of racism" implies that whites never experience racism from "nonwhites." This is absolutely untrue. There is racism between the various POCs as well as between POCs and "whites." Racism goes both ways.
Line 111, (page 6): W.E.B Dubois was extremely racist against caucasians. He is not a good example to offer to children.
Footnote 3, (page 7): It is totally improper to use TWLF members as sole sources for any historical insight. There is no objectivity or fairness using such sources. Views from sources who were on the other side of these events is needed for balance.
Line 208, (page 10): If "whites" are presented as the primary promoters of "systems of power", how does ethnic studies help "white" students develop "a strong sense of identity"? Doesn't this promote "white shaming"?
Line 249, (page 12): Define "humanization." All people groups are already human.
Lines 263-264/Footnote 20, (page 13): Most of the long list of "oppressed groups" have nothing to do with ethnicity or race. Adults can barely understand a lot of these terms, especially since they are not clearly defined. Children cannot be expected to understand these concepts. Why is the ESMC determined to fracture people into even more groups?
Lines 279-280/Footnote 25, (page 13): The definition of "systemic racism" sounds more like a promotion for socialism. There is no "inequitable distribution" in our nation, since nothing is truly distributed by our government or other institutions. Public education, jobs, and other opportunities are not controlled by anyone and are available to all persons who wish to take advantage of them. Additionally, what scientific or research-based evidence proves the existence of systemic racism?
Line 294, (page 14): Does "ethnicity" include those who are not POCs? "Whites" must also be shown to have ethnicity for there to be "inclusion."
Lines 350-364, (page 14): Students need to have a course in civics in order to understand "civic engagement", since there are laws and limitations to engagement that need to be recognized. Otherwise, students may be

encouraged to engage in acts of civil disobedience that have lasting consequences such as criminal records. Teaching children to love and respect ALL people, as well as their differing opinions and views, is much more effective than civil disobedience and "empowerment."
Appendix A Sample Lesson 8, Lines 1399+, Black Lives Matter:
The tactics used by BLM are often violent and sometimes quite questionable for use in a civilized society. At least 24 people have been killed at BLM demonstrations in recent months. To ensure that students receive a balanced view of BLM, the following should be discussed:
Is violence acceptable to further a cause, even if it is for social justice? Does the end justify the means?
Since the history and structure of BLM has roots in Marxism, Communism, and transgenderism, discuss BOTH the pros and cons of these views and lifestyle.
As written, this lesson appears to assume that police violence and racial profiling are common and unwarranted. Therefore, the following should be included for objectivity:
Statistics on how many of those killed by police were killed because of their own violent or criminal activity.
Statistics on how many non-whites are killed by police annually versus whites who are killed.
A discussion of numerous reasons that possibly contribute to racial profiling and how to address behaviors and attitudes that encourage it.
Provide the views of non-whites who disagree with the BLM narrative and/or the tactics used to promote social justice.

