From: Nora Rousso Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 5:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies; SBE Subject: Model Curriculum
Dear IQC/SBE I appreciate that explicit anti-Semitic content is not in the proposed "ethnic studies curriculum." That being said, you have a long way to go. At this moment there are still lesson plans which say that Jews (as a group) "....have experienced conditional whiteness and privilege." (See Lesson Plan 41). It is not too far a jump from statements like this to statements like "Jews control the banks" or "this cause is being funded by George Soros."
In my view, part of the problem is the way the Holocaust is (or is not) being taught to students. More and more students, even here in California where Holocaust education is already supposed to be included, are completely ignorant of the Holocaust. By way of example I have copied and pasted an "Etsy" conversation I had last week. To provide context, after the assault on the Capitol when at least one insurrectionist was photographed wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" t-shirt, online merchants like Etsy and Amazon began selling those offensive shirts.
I contacted Etsy to complain (via chat). Much to my surprise, the service representative did not know what "Auschwitz" was. I do not blame this person for his ignorance; but I blame his school. Please see the entire message below.
What does this have to do with "ethnic studies?" As I said above, there is at least one lesson plan that continues the damaging myth that Jews as a group enjoy "privileges" that other groups do not. This is on top of the preposterous assertion that Jews as a group are "white." While there is improvement in that lesson 41 purports to address "Jews of Middle Eastern Descent," the plan does not even use the term "MENA" Jews (Jews of Middle Eastern and North African descent).
In addition, you need to clearly adopt the IHRA definition of antisemitism. I am aware that other groups like the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies have pointed this out so I won't repeat it.
Finally, you need to revise your lists of notable people of color to take out hatemongers like Linda Sarsour, an open supporter of BDS. Also: why no "notable Jews?" Like, say, Albert Einstein? Or how about black Jews? Here is a link to a rather long list.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_African-American_Jews
Thank you.
Nora Rousso
Here is the "Etsy" chat transcript. I highlighted the offensive bits. Hi there!

Thanks for choosing Etsy!
Let me know if there's anything else I can help you with!
---------- Forwarded message --------From: estatelg Date: 1/11/2021, 5:16:44 PM Chat started: 2021-01-11 09:11 AM UTC
(09:11:46 AM) estatelg: Why are you permitting a seller to sell a "Camp Auschwitz" t shirt? It is horribly offensive. The thugs who entered the Capitol wore them. (09:11:48 AM) Etsy: We're connecting you to an agent. While you wait, please add more details that are relevant to your request, including your full name and email address. Closing this window will end the chat. (09:11:51 AM) *** Deks joined the chat *** (09:11:54 AM) Deks: Hi! (09:12:09 AM) estatelg: Hello (09:12:23 AM) Deks: I am not quite familiar with the term. Give me a moment to take a look on that one (09:13:50 AM) estatelg: Wow that is shocking in itself. Auschwitz WAS A DEATH CAMP WHERE MANY OF THE SIX MILLION JEWS MURDERED IN THE HOLOCAUST DIED (09:14:15 AM) estatelg: You have heard of the Holocaust I hope? (09:14:25 AM) Deks: Yep. I was not familiar with the term, I am more familiar with the term Holocaust (09:14:46 AM) estatelg: Well no offense but you need to do (09:14:57 AM) Deks: Got it! I will be escalating this to our designated team so we can review and take it down (09:15:01 AM) estatelg: Some reading (09:15:03 AM) Deks: May I have the name of the shop? (09:15:11 AM) estatelg: Hang on (09:15:22 AM) Deks: Sure thing! I will wait here on my end. Take your time!

