Friends of the Chinese American Museum
125 Paseo de la Plaza, Suite 202 | Los Angeles, CA 90012 | (213) 485-8484
State Board of Education c/o California Department of Education Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division 1430 N Street, Suite 3207 Sacramento, CA 95814
January 21, 2021
Dear State Board of Education,
The Chinese American Museum (CAM) is the first museum in Southern California dedicated to the Chinese American experience and history in this region. The mission of the Chinese American Museum (CAM) is to foster a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, America's diverse heritage by researching, preserving, and sharing the history, rich cultural legacy, and continued contributions of Chinese Americans.
The Friends of the Chinese Museum supports the Asian Pacific Islander School Board Members Association (APISBMA) request for revisions to the final draft of the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) to be presented to the State Board of Education (SBE) in March 2021.
The desired revisions which are focused on usability, accessibility, 1. The "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" Lesson, Sample Lesson #31 in Appendix A, should be listed as the first sample lesson in the AAPI unit and be rewritten to remove stereotypes and to incorporate reflection based on analyzing data. 2. Language should be added to Chapter 3: Instructional Guidance for K-12 Education to frame "Asian Americans and the Model Minority Myth" as a foundational lesson to the AAPI Unit and as an indispensable component of any Ethnic Studies course. 3. In the AAPI Unit, the pan-Asian lesson plans should be listed first, followed by one lesson plan per ethnic group in alphabetical order, and concluding with an additional resources section for groups with more than one lesson plan. Groups with more than one lesson plan should provide input on which lesson plan is foundational for their group. 4. Appendix A should be reclassified as "Chapter 4" in the ESMC and "Chapter 4: Bibliography" should be reclassified as "Chapter 5: Bibliography" Appendices A and B (formerly Appendices B and C). The lesson plans must be highlighted as core content for educators to build Ethnic Studies courses, not as supporting content in an Appendix.
In addition to the above APISBMA points, FCAM would like to see at least two additional important topics represented in the sample lesson plans. The first is to include the Chinese Exclusion act of 1882 as well as the historic Supreme Court case of US v Wong Kim Ark. This case defines the 14th amendment's definition of birthright citizenship that is extremely relevant and historic to this day.

, "Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" is an indispensable asset to the teaching of Ethnic Studies. We join local, statewide, and national organizations in support of the final approval of the ESMC; with these edits to the AAPI Unit and to the ESMC in general, we believe California students will soon experience a curriculum that better represents the diversity of our community.
Thank you. Sincerely,
Gay Yuen, Ph.D. Board President Friends of the Chinese America Museum
Professor Emerita Charter College of Education California State University, Los Angeles

