JPAC Board of Directors
Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles
Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco
Jewish Community Relations Council of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, Sonoma, Alameda, and Contra Costa Counties
Jewish Family Service of Los Angeles
Jewish Family and Children's Services of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, and Sonoma Counties
Jewish Federation of San Diego
Jewish Family Service of San Diego
Jewish Long Beach
Jewish Community Relations Council of Silicon Valley
Family Services of Silicon Valley
Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region
Jewish Community Relations Council Sacramento
Jewish Federation of Greater Santa Barbara
Jewish Federation and Family Services of Orange County
Jewish Family & Community Services East Bay
Anti-Defamation League
American Jewish Committee
Hadassah
Bet Tzedek
Holocaust Museum Los Angeles
JVS SoCal
30 Years After
ETTA
Rhoda Goldman Plaza

January 21, 2021
State Board of Education California Department of Education 1430 N Street Sacramento, CA 95814-5901
Dear Members of the State Board of Education:
On behalf of the Jewish Public Affairs Committee of California (JPAC), we want to express our appreciation to the Instructional Quality Commission for approving many of the California Department of Education's recommendations on the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum at the November 2020 meeting. JPAC is the largest single-state coalition of Jewish organizations in the nation. We advocate in Sacramento on behalf of a diverse representation of the California Jewish community, which includes Jewish Federations and Jewish Community Relations Councils, Jewish Family Service agencies, and many other Jewish community organizations that advocate for and directly serve the California Jewish community and the people of California at large.
The Third Field Revision is a significant improvement over previous drafts, and brought the model curriculum into much greater alignment with your Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum Guidelines, California's Education Code, and the vision for ethnic studies laid out in AB 2016. We applaud the addition of new sample lessons representing California's diverse racial and ethnic communities in Appendix A. In particular, we appreciate the inclusion of Lesson 40: Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern-Americans and Lesson 41: Jewish Americans: Identity, Intersectionality, and Complicating Ideas of Race. These and other new lessons add depth, new perspectives, and make important connections that will enrich the educational experience of all students in an ethnic studies classroom.
We greatly value the opportunity to comment on this draft. The enclosed review offers specific suggestions for strengthening consistency, clarity, and alignment across chapters. It also highlights a number of important changes made by the IQC, which we support and strongly recommend be retained in the final model curriculum. We appreciate the removal of denigrating content on Jews, Israelis, and Israel from the draft, and trust that you will ensure that efforts to reinsert hateful and divisive content are rejected. We appreciate the clear commitments made by State Board President Dr. Darling-Hammond, Superintendent Thurmond, and Governor Newsom regarding the model curriculum living up to California values, standards, and law. With high numbers of antisemitic incidents nationwide and in

California, we ask for your continued vigilance against the reinsertion of content that directly or indirectly seeks to divide and indoctrinate, rather than lift up, build understanding, and foster critical thinking. The following signatories and JPAC member organizations are grateful to the members of the State Board of Education for your consideration of the recommended changes detailed in the enclosed review by the Institute for Curriculum Services. We appreciate your time and dedication, and the opportunity to provide input. We look forward to participating in the process and to seeing the adoption of a high-quality Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum that will enrich the educational experience of all of California's students. Sincerely,
Allison Gingold Chair, Board of Directors, JPAC
Julie Zeisler Executive Director, JPAC
Tyler Gregory Executive Director, Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC), of San Francisco, the Peninsula, Marin, Sonoma, Alameda and Contra Costa Counties
Danny Grossman CEO, Jewish Community Federation and Endowment Fund (Bay Area)
Jay Sanderson President & CEO, The Jewish Federation of Greater Los Angeles

Diane Fisher Director, Community Relations Council, Jewish Federation of Silicon Valley
William Recht Executive Director, Jewish Federation of the Sacramento Region
Jason Moss Executive Director, Jewish Federation of the Greater San Gabriel and Pomona Valleys
Zachary M. Benjamin Chief Executive Officer, Jewish Long Beach
Cheri DeKofsky Executive Director, Jewish Federation of Ventura County
Cyndi Silverman Executive Director, Jewish Federation of Santa Barbara
Lisa Armony Director, The Rose Project, Jewish Federation and Family Services Orange County

Cc:
The Honorable Tony Thurmond, State Superintendent of Public Instruction The Honorable Jose Medina, Assemblymember The Honorable Jesse Gabriel, Assemblymember, Chair, California Legislative Jewish Caucus The Honorable Scott Wiener, State Senator, Vice-Chair, California Legislative Jewish Caucus Jamie Callahan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Governor Brooks Allen, Executive Director, California State Board of Education Dr. Stephanie Gregson, Chief Deputy Superintendent of Public Instruction Shanine Coats, Executive Director, Instructional Quality Commission and Director of the Curriculum Frameworks and Instructional Resources Division Dr. Kenneth McDonald, Lead Consultant for the 2020 Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

