From: Kayla R Begay Sent: Thursday, January 21, 2021 8:47 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] ESMC Third Field Review
Good evening!
I have the following suggestions for the third draft of the ESMC. Thank you for your collective work and the opportunity to comment!
Chapter 1) * Lines 98-101, Consider the following in bold: Furthermore, considering that European American-centered history and cultures are already robustly taught in the school curriculum, ethnic studies presents an opportunity for more inclusive and diverse histories and cultures to be highlighted and studied in a manner that is meaningful and can be transformative for all students. General comment - Is there one single European American culture? I can think of really important regional, cultural, religious, and linguistic differences starting with the 13 colonies and Spanish colonialization that persist today, though European Americans share in Whiteness and White privilege.
Chapter 3)
Line 782 - General Comment - Current Native American Journalists Association (NAJA) and Native American Studies Guidelines are to capitalize all instances of Indigenous as it pertains to peoples. My understanding is that Black may also be similarly capitalized, but refer to appropriate discipline specific experts for clarification.
Lines 572, 575, 893 - consider peoples instead of people. There is no one Native American/Indigenous people. There are currently over 574 federally recognized tribal nations, the largest number being in California, a state that also has numerous unrecognized tribes petitioning for this political status.
Line 572 - Indigenous describes a relationship, rather than a specific identity without naming the lands one may be Indigenous to. While Indigenous often references Indigenous peoples beyond the U.S., it should be noted that many scholars do refer to Indigenous peoples of the United States (Native Alaskans, Native Americans/American Indians, Native Hawaiians, etc.). This may need to be reworked to clarify and not create a distinction where it appears to not be in use within the U.S. for tribal nations.

Lines 582-583 - CSU Ethnic Studies core competencies include Decolonization along with Settler Colonialism. Recommended inclusion of Decolonization if any classes are AP, A-G (potential F), etc.
Line 581-590 Consider inclusion of language revitalization or language reclamation. In general, language policy is a very important topic in Ethnic Studies as a discipline. Every California tribal language is endangered and in a state of revitalization/reclamation.
Also consider cultural resurgence instead of just retention. Ceremonies and cultural arts like basketweaving have undergone a cultural renaissance since the 1970s after surviving policies intending to erase them. Current terminology that I see in Native American studies discuss this as resurgence.
Line 584 - Consider inclusion of place-based pedagogy after land acknowledgement, or somewhere in this section. This can help ground school districts in learning about tribes specific to their areas and promote shared values of environmental justice / sustainability without erasing California tribes.
Lines 599-633 - While ES/NAS is inherently interdisciplinary, it is a hallmark of ES/NAS to use authors, scholars representative of the four named racialized groups and their voices. This is important - otherwise educators may confuse the study of the four named racialized groups, ie. Anthropology, History, for Ethnic Studies, and early anthropology contributed significantly to concepts of race and racism. Consider California Indian Studies authors/scholars for instance, instead of historic anthropologists, i.e. Alfred Kroeber, unless using with critical interventions or as artifacts of study themselves. Even contemporary historians for example often do not engage in Ethnic Studies when they study us, and contribute to disempowering our voices, and their work can have a detrimental effect on our youth if used.
Lines 600 - general comment - there is no single Native American culture, or language for instance. Consider pluralizing peoples and cultures.
Line 892 - consider removal or relocation instead of migration. This is Native American Studies specific, and refer to historic eras or specific policies within Federal Indian Policy.
Line 1007 - Consider current Land Back movements, the transfer of Wiyot Land back to Wiyot Tribe by the city of Eureka as one example. While this is not a California specific movement, other examples exist in California and are growing or are in progress.
Thank you again for the opportunity to comment!
--
--Dr. Kayla Begay
Hoopa Valley Tribe; she/her/they/them Assistant Professor, Native American Studies, Humboldt State University | Linguistics PhD

