From: Irina Auerbuch Sent: Sunday, January 3, 2021 4:59 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Comments on the Third ESMC Draft
Dear Members of the State Board of Education,
I would like to wish all of you a happy and healthy New Year and thank you from the bottom of my heart for the hard and tedious work of preparing the new Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum. It is long overdue and everyone will learn from it, no matter what race, ethnicity, or religion.
I'm especially thankful for the fact that you listened to the previous public comments, took them to heart and revised the curriculum once again to include my Jewish community's concerns. As most members of any minority population know, too often it seems that no one listens or understands, but you listened, understood and took action. For that I'm very grateful.
Thank you for recognizing and including Antisemitism as a form of bigotry and oppression, especially in our era of increased and open bigotry of all kinds and the specific threat to the Jewish Community.
I hope you will find it useful and justifiable to use the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's definition of Antisemitism, which the European Union and US State Department adopted when President Obama was at the helm.
I would like to say that I very much appreciate the inclusion of two lessons on Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern-Americans and Jewish Americans: Identity, Intersectionality, and Complicating Ideas of Race. I hope you will be able to leave them in the final curriculum, so that the students may be able understand the complexities of contemporary Jewish history and identities.
I also hope that you may be able to include a lesson on how to deal with Antisemitism, once the students, teachers, and school administrators understand what it is and how to recognize it. I was made aware of a lesson called BINAH -Building Insights to Navigate Antisemitism and Hate, that was proposed by ADL for this purpose. I hope you are aware of it, too.
I wish you strength and good insight in continuing developing ESMC, it is very important to all of us. I'm looking forward to reading more about the next iteration of ESMC and hope that we, the public, will be allowed to comment on it in all phases of its development.

Stay well With Best Regards,
Irina Auerbuch San Mateo County

