From: Lydia Percin Sent: Sunday, January 3, 2021 12:48 PM To: Ethnic Studies Cc: Megan Dahle Subject: [EXTERNAL] California State Board of Education - ESMC Third Field Review
I am writing about the ESMC Third Field Review and proposed addition of Critical Race Theory (CRT) to the California K-12 curriculum. I could not disagree more with this proposed curriculum. CA State Board of Education members are attempting to indoctrinate our children with their far left and racially divisive perspective of "Critical Race Theory" as it is currently considering adding this Marxist theory to California's K-12 curriculum. In its "ESMC Third Field Review" the SBE relies in large part on the work of Christine Sleeter, a far left, social justice activist, who is "angry" (by her own words) at the United States. CRT overlooks the positive aspects of our countries' history in overcoming slavery and eliminating racism and segregation, and accuses ALL Americans of systemic racism. It proposes the solution to the wrongs of our forefathers is to teach our children today that if their skin color is white, they are oppressors and perpetrators of racism (whether they know it, or not), and if they are not white, they are victims of racism and oppressed (whether they have ever felt oppressed, or not) - thereby reinstating racial discrimination, breeding racial tension and division, punishing and teaching self-deprecation in white children, while teaching non-white children that they are victims of and to hate those "oppressors" with white skin. The sample lesson plans in the curriculum are clearly biased. Focusing on only leftist and democrat role models of ethnic diversity, and ignoring minorities with conservative ideology who should be a part of any ethnic studies class. A viewing of the "Uncle Tom" documentary, or some of the works of well-respected conservative minorities, such as Candace Owens, Larry Elder, Ben Carson, the late great Herman Cane, etc. etc. would be a good addition to a well rounded and unbiased ethnic studies curriculum, but such conservative sources are ignored perpetuating the biased, leftist agenda. The curriculum also glorifies leftist activism, such as BLM, which is itself a political organization with the anti-law enforcement assumption of police brutality, and without any recognition that law enforcement may have had justification for its actions in a particular case - with the assignment requiring the student to take on the leftist position of enacting change or engaging in protest. The leftist bias is inexcusable. It is NOT "teaching tolerance" it is teaching hatred towards our country and its law enforcement - and hatred towards non-leftist. In short, the CRT curriculum proposed is itself racist. Lastly, I remind you that 57% of Californian rejected Proposition 16. Similarly, Californians want the SBE to stop trying to indoctrinating our children with leftist ideology.
Lydia T. Percin, Esq. [address redacted] Truckee, CA

