The California Department of Education received more than 1900 submissions that contained the text below. Other identical comments may have been posted separately.
From: [email redacted] on behalf of ElinaKaplan Sent: Thursday, December 24, 2020 5:11 PM To: Ethnic Studies; [emails redacted]; Tony Thurmond Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove Critical Ethnic Studies Foundation from CA Ethnic Studies
Dear California Department of Education and State Board of Education,
I am writing to express concern about the Critical Ethnic Studies' (ES) polarizing foundation which still corrupts the ESMC - a curriculum that, rather than dividing, should build bridges among students and ethnic groups. I ask that you remove the Critical ES foundation from the Guiding Values and Principles AND the resulting lessons.
This includes:
1. Removing the indoctrinating Critical Ethnic Studies ideology from the Guiding Values and Principles.
2. Replacing the narrow Critical ES language and leading questions that assume a foregone conclusion, with broader constructive language that invites inquiry and analysis from multiple perspectives.
3. Removing content that promotes violence or victimhood, or demeans any ethnic group.
4. Replacing the narrow ideological lens that romanticizes any one-sided political, economic, militant, or separatist movement, with a balanced evaluation including both positive and negative sides of the movement or "ism."
5. Replacing the unvetted list of A-G courses in Appendix C with courses such as those of the Los Angeles Unified School District's (LAUSD), which are not based on a Critical ES approach.
I add my voice to the requests from the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies. We all want a Constructive Ethnic Studies curriculum, such as that of the LAUSD, which represents both contributions and struggles of ethnic groups and confronts racism, while building mutual understanding among all students and fostering balanced analysis.
Thank you for your work to date on improving the ESMC and for your thoughtful consideration of the above crucial revisions.
Respectfully, ElinaKaplan

Foster City

