From: Donna and Joseph Goldstein Sent: Monday, December 21, 2020 11:09 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
I offer to you a mission statement, one that is so critical to any undertaking, especially ethnic studies, in that our country is a wonderful melting pot of so many diverse cultures, religions, races. One of the most wonderful things about America is the offering of opportunity to improve, as articulated in the Preamble to the Declaration of Independence- dedicated to providing and assuring "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" to its citizens. That is the purpose of government, that is the stated purpose of our republic. Ethnic studies must align with these goals, and acknowledge several things- first that all people are welcomed to this country through a legal process, second that opportunity is one that must be grasped because no one but that individual knows where they wish to go, third that the government will assure that opportunity through considered effort on the part of individuals will not be thwarted; but also that in the process of democratic growth, the past will be acknowledged and paths altered. Pride in being here is something that must be stressed, pride in correcting errors must be stressed, and that opportunity prevails. Do not denigrate what this country offers, surely enough there are people who are to be praised, and surely enough, in the overall distribution of population and thought there will be people and deeds to be dunned. But never lose sight of the fact that this country allows growth, allows thought, allows ideals; and is a place especially created in this world of ours through the concepts of individual rights, liberty, and property.
Why do I send this? Because in this tumultuous world in which we now live, it is too easy to complain, to easy to find fault, but not that easy to

offer solutions nor to provide praise. I feel that ethnic studies is one area where pride can be established in that the very fact that such programs exist is testament to our wonderful country. I would be proud to continue this dialogue with any of your personnel. Please contact me at [email redacted], or tele at [phone number redacted]. Thank you, Joseph K. Goldstein

