From: robert rakauskas Sent: Monday, December 21, 2020 10:16 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Your curriculum will be a disservice to our students.
I couldn't say it better myself than this:
"The curriculum is almost entirely focused on America's sins. From slavery to forcible deportation to genocide, it shines a light on the ugliest parts of the country's history. Yes, every student should grapple with this history. It is only right to note its existence and condemn it. The problem is that the curriculum largely stops there, leaving out the larger lesson that Americans can and have and will continue to overcome injustice. In every era, Americans have proven willing to examine the flaws and failures of the past. They have continued the work of building a more perfect union. To treat contemporary American society as if it is merely an extension of past injustices is to dismiss the work and lives of so many heroes. It ignores the courage and leadership of figures as Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Jr., Rosa Parks and John Lewis, to name a few. And it ignores the historical fact that previous generations built the most successful multiethnic country in the history of the world. The history of California is essentially that of the nation writ small. The Golden State is golden not because of the gold once found in its hills, but rather because of its history of improvement, of pushing America forward toward a future where its principles are better realized. It is no accident that so many peoples from around the world have sought refuge in its beautiful land, that so many who flee from ethnic and ideological persecution by communist dictatorships still choose California and America. Students deserve to know that history. Without the complete picture -- of terrible wrongs that have been righted, of injustices and the justice warriors who ended them, of the march onward and upward that is happening even now -- then students will find it harder to bring the country to new heights. Instead, they will be inclined to tear it down, including the victories that so many fought so hard to achieve."
Robert Rakauskas [phone number redacted[ [address redacted] Winnetka, CA

