From: Nina Sent: Sunday, December 27, 2020 2:24 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Latest comments on latest draft
HI, committee members
Thanks for your continued efforts to create the model ethnic studied curriculum that California needs. I expect continued opportunities for public comment throughout the whole development process. It's too improtant to the public for the public to be left out.
The current draft seems to include a good variety of the many ethnicities that make up our state, and lessons that ought to promote civic engagement. I have always regretted that schools stopped teaching civics in the middle of the last century. Democracy, like any form of organization, has to be learned.
I like the additions of Sample Lessons 40 and 41 about Jewish Americans. I especially appreciate Lesson 41's discussion of how complicated and socially constructed ideas about race are. Essentialist racial ideas are tempting but both scientifically and morally wrong. You could also add the ADL's lessons BINAH - Buiding Insights to Navigate Antisemitism and Hate.
It's important as a matter of both principle (inclusiveness) and pedagogy (making people think by giving them things to think about) to include teaching about Jewish Americans and about antisemitism. It's important as a matter of fairness for the Jewish community to be the ones to define what antisemitism is. The definition of antisemism should cover all the forms of hatred the Jews experience. If anyone wants you to weaken the definition, I hope you will politely decline.
There is something by definition wrong with the list of UC approved course outlines for which `content has not been reviewed.' I know you don't need more work, but somebody should review the content. If another agency has done so, your report should state who did. If not, what is the point of attaching it? Your content note makes it sound like you don't respect these resources and are including the list only under protest. If that is the case, find something you do respect and attach it instead. Personally I respect the LAUSD outline.
Best of luck with the final draft and all that it should express: equity, inclusiveness, universally high expectations, critical thinking, and probably relief at finally being able to wrap it up and do something else!
Nina G. Wouk [address redacted] Menlo Park CA

