The California Department of Education received 11 submissions that contained the text below. Other identical comments may have been posted separately.
From: [email redacted] on behalf of Joanne Donsky Sent: Sunday, December 20, 2020 8:02 PM To: Ethnic Studies; [emails redacted]; Tony Thurmond Cc: [emails redacted] Subject: [EXTERNAL] Remove Critical Ethnic Studies Foundation from CA Ethnic Studies
Dear California Department of Education and State Board of Education,
While I appreciate some of the changes that have been made in the ESMC, I am still concerned about changes that still need to be made.
I am extremely concerned about the Critical Ethnic Studies' (ES) polarizing approach and narrow ideology that still corrupt a curriculum that should build bridges among all students and ethnic groups. I ask that you replace the Critical ES foundation in the Guiding Values and Principles AND the resulting lessons, with a Constructive ES foundation, which is more consistent with the desirable outcomes stated by the CDE and SBE.
This includes:
1. Removing the us-versus-them Critical ES ideology and revising lessons to confront racism and discrimination with mutual respect and empathy;
2. Removing content or figures that promote violence or demean any ethnic group;
3. Replacing the narrow ideological lens that romanticizes any one-sided political, economic, militant, or separatist movement, with a balanced evaluation including both positive and negative sides of the movement or "ism";
4. Replacing Critical ES language and leading questions that assume a foregone conclusion, with broader constructive language that invites inquiry from multiple perspectives.
I add my voice to the requests from the Alliance for Constructive Ethnic Studies. We all want a constructive Ethnic Studies curriculum, such as that of the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), which represents the struggles and contributions of ethnic groups and confronts racism, while building mutual understanding among all students and fostering balanced analysis.
Thank you for all the improvements to the curriculum so far, and for your thoughtful consideration of these crucial revisions for the benefit of all the students in our state.
Respectfully, Joanne Donsky

Joanne Donsky

