From: sheldon kay Sent: Wednesday, December 23, 2020 3:36 PM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] comments on curriculum
Page 43-45
The list of black leaders and thinkers are all liberal. There are no conservative writers or historical black leaders who provide a different narrative on race in America. A narrative of individual empowerment through self improvement, the use of the free enterprise system for local development, and the rejection of using the lens of historical racism as the basis for the lack of advancement in poor black communities. Conservative black thinkers and writers like Thomas Sowell, Shelby, Steele, and Walter Williams should be on the list. Also historical black figures like Richard Allen, Jackie Robinson, and Eldridge Cleaver (who became conservative) should be included. Children need to be taught both narratives, without advocating for one narrative over the other.
Pages 674-678
Dominant narrative is defined as a widely held belief promoted by the dominant white culture. Why link a dominant narrative to only the white race. A narrative is dominant if it is widely believed, regardless of race. This is often accomplished when the press and/or a political party promotes a particular narrative. In reading through the curriculum it is clear that it is biased towards the liberal narratives disseminated by the liberal media and Democrat Party. There are no conservative countervailing narratives to provide a balanced perspective on race in America. For example, the liberal narrative of police disproportionately killing unarmed blacks is false when actual statistics of police killings are compiled. This is shown by the Washington Post's tracking, by race, the number of unarmed persons killed by police, or by the leading black researcher on police killings, Professor Roland Fryer of Harvard. Both the Washington Post and Professor Fryer found no evidence that unarmed blacks were disproportionately more often killed than unarmed whites. Yet your curriculum promotes the false narrative of police targeting blacks. As Chimnanda Agizie points out in her TED talk, children are highly impressionable and easily persuadable. To that I would add, because of this, our educational system must be sure that it does not succumb to biases in teaching our children. What we teach our children must be supported by the facts, not what a narrative claims are the facts.
Page 842
The narrative suggests the war on drugs was promoted by whites to justify disproportionately arresting people of color. In fact, the impetus for the legislation came from black leaders who saw the devastation of black communities from the rampant use of crack cocaine. They urged President Clinton to pass strict drug laws. This fact was left out to make it appear that it was whites who wanted strict drug laws for nefarious reasons. That people of color were

disproportionately imprisoned was an unintended consequence of the law rather than the reason the law was passed.
Page 1399
The Black Lives Matter group is a movement advocating against police brutality, mainly defined as police targeting and killing blacks. Here again, this promotes the false narrative that police disproportionately kill unarmed blacks. Left out of the narrative on the BLM movement is that it became a nationally recognized movement when it used a false narrative to protest against a white officer killing a black, Michael Brown. The narrative promoted by BLM was that Michael Brown was shot and killed with his hands in the air while he was attempting to surrender. That is a false narrative. The investigation into the shooting, led by the black Attorney General, Eric Holder, exonerated the police officer of wrongdoing. The forensics and eye witness accounts showed that Michael Brown first attempted to wrest the police officer's gun away and later turned to charge, head down and body leaning forward, towards the police officer; did not heed the officer's command to stop; and was shot when he closed in on the police officer.
In closing let me add this. As there are two dominant political parties in this country, it is incumbent that the views and narratives of each party are equally represented. If not, our educational system becomes a propaganda arm of the Democrat party. That goes against one of the foundational purposes of education - teaching children to objectively analyze and think for themselves. Otherwise our educational system mimics those of authoritarian and dictatorial countries where children are not taught to think for themselves but are taught the party line.

