From: JIMENA: Jews Indigenous to the Middle East and North Africa Sent: Wednesday, December 30, 2020 11:21 AM To: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Sign Petition to Keep Antisemitism Included in CA's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum
Ensure that JIMENA's Antisemitism Lesson is Included in the Final Draft of California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum

JIMENA needs your help before California's Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum is finalized!
Join us in recognizing that while the California's Department of Education and the Instructional Quality Commission (IQC) recommended that JIMENA's lesson Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern-Americans be included in the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC), improvements must be made to the final draft of the curriculum.
Sign JIMENA's petition to California's State Board of Education by January 21st asking the following:
1) The State Board of Education should remove bias from the Ethnic Studies Model Curriculum (ESMC) and treat Asian communities with proportionality and balance as California and Federal laws and the State Board of Education's Content Standards and ESMC Guidelines require. JIMENA's lesson plan "Antisemitism and Jewish Middle Eastern-Americans" must be added to the "Asian American and Pacific Islander Studies" section, paired with the IQC-recommended lessons that focus on Islamophobia and xenophobia of South Asians.
Currently, this section omits antisemitism -- reminiscent of the omissions that embroiled the ESMC's first draft in controversy. Antisemitism continues to be the most prevalent religious-based hate crime in the United States and California according to FBI statistics -- comprising 68% of all religious-based hate crimes targeting the Jewish 2% of the population. Anti-Muslim hate crimes comprise 12% of the religious-based hate crimes total for 1% of the population.
2) Add links to the primary sources in the "Antisemitism and Jewish Middle EasternAmericans" lesson's definitions of antisemitism.
3) Include the seven-minute United States Holocaust Memorial Museum video, "Antisemitism Today" in the "Antisemitism and Middle Eastern Jewish Americans" lesson. This video provides succinct and compelling information on contemporary antisemitism, Islamophobia, and other forms of bigotry further enriching and reinforcing content in the Asian Studies section.
SIGN PETITION TODAY
Between now and January 1st each dollar contributed to JIMENA will be matched by a giving circle of Sephardic and Mizrahi donors in the San
Francisco Bay Area. Double your gift today!

Follow JIMENA on Facebook, Instagram, andTwitter

Use the hashtag #jimenavoice to share photos, news, and ideas to our online communities
JIMENA's mission is to achieve universal recognition of the heritage and history of the one million Jewish refugees from the Middle East and North Africa and their descendants. Our
programs aim to ensure that the accurate history of Mizrahi and Sephardic Jews is incorporated into mainstream Jewish and Middle Eastern narratives in order to create balance in attitudes, narratives, and discourse about Middle Eastern refugees and the
modern Jewish experience.

