From: Mike Gerber Sent: Tuesday, December 29, 2020 10:22 PM To: Joe Nalven Cc: Ethnic Studies Subject: [EXTERNAL] Re: Opinion: The Struggle to Produce an Ethnic Studies Curriculum in Multiracial California
Joe:
Your article, as always, was well thought out and well written, but, perhaps out of necessity, you do seem to concede the advisability and legitimacy of an ethnic studies curriculum. It won't surprise you to learn that I feel quite differently. In the first place, I believe that ethnic studies are meant to divide us as Americans, and to encourage conflict - even hatred of one another. Emphasis on grievances and victimhood are never helpful to anyone, though, like a narcotic, they may provide a temporary "high." My observation is that the most successful ethnic groups are those that don't obsess over past, or even current, mistreatment, but learn to "power through it and avoid resentments. I should add, at this point, that any course who's name ends in "Studies" is, presumptively, an illegitimate educational venture, and has no place at either the secondary or college level. These "courses" are all basically cheerleading, and are meant to divide, rather than to educate and inspire us as Americans. I consider myself very fortunate that I attended an elementary school in Pittsburgh, who's motto, in song, was "no matter what our race or creed, we are Americans all." This was in the years immediately after WW2, and it was, in my opinion, despite its imperfections, a much better place and time.
Sent from my iPhone 8
Mike Gerber
On Dec 29, 2020, at 4:56 PM, Joe Nalven [email redacted] wrote:
One of the challenges in critiquing the 3rd revision to California's ethnic studies curriculum is getting a handle of how critical race theory is overbroad and misapplied to school curriculum.
I took up the challenge in this recently published OpEd. Let me know what you think and, if you have time, I provided the email to send in your thoughts to the California Department of Education.
Thank you, Joe
Opinion: The Struggle to Produce an Ethnic Studies Curriculum in Multiracial California
https://timesofsandiego.com/opinion/2020/12/29/the-struggle-to-produce-an-ethnic-studiescurriculum-in-multiracial-california/

